LOST OASIS
A PLAYTEST TALE
NOTE: This is a playtest adventure. Due to the goals of a playtest, some
player choices are constrained. In future installments of Tales of Xadia,
this won’t be the case. For groups wishing to simply playtest a few short
scenes, there are playtest scenes marked for immediate use (marked
with ) and additional context and plot summaries
are included on their respective pages.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A Cortex Playtest
Welcome, Travelers! Grab your friends and dive into this
Tale of Xadia!
“I’ve Got Some Questions…”
Why are we here, anyway?
Why can’t Feathershawl do this themself ?
Maybe I could do this without Feathershawl?
You’re sure it’s abandoned, Feathershawl?
Background for the Narrator
Innean
Catalysts
Many Paths
Feathershawl
Nausics
Cuirass of Vuxen and the Primal Well
Scene Structure
Threads
Prologue – Arriving on Innean
Act One – Rabble, Rabble
Feathershawl
Nausics
Townspeople
What Next?
Action Scene – Extraction
Action Scene – An Eager Invitation
Action Scene – Mass Flight
Townspeople of Note
What’s the Plan?
Bridge Scene – Overdue Notice
The Collision
Bridge Scene – More Than a Mouthful
The Collision
Act Two – After the Collision
Action Scene – Moon Steals Earth and Sky
Action Scene – Sky Defies Moon
Action Scene – Roars of Freedom
Action Scene – Feathers Fly
Action Scene – Primal Deliverance
Action Scene – From Cloud to Anvil
Additional Scenes
Succession
Loyal Swarm
Descent of the Coward
Other Sad Outcomes
The Aftermath
What’s Next
TABLE OF CONTENTS
2
SCENE GUIDE
Prologue
Arriving on Innean
Page 12
Aftermath
Page 34
Act Two
Page 26
Feathershawl Nausics Townspeople
Act One
Rabble, Rabble
Page 13
An Eager Invitation
Page 18
Sky Defies Moon
Page 27
More than a Mouthful
Page 24
Primal Deliverance
Page 30
From Cloud to Anvil
Page 31
Overdue Notice
Page 23
Feathers Fly
Page 29
Extraction
Page 16
Moon Steals Earth & Sky
Page 27
Mass Flight
Page 19
Roars of Freedom
Page 29
NOTE: This flowchart shows the most
likely paths through the tale. Depending
on how things go, you might add more
scenes in, play them in a slightly different
order, or have some PCs jump across to a
different thread. Since all of the threads
are running concurrently, make sure the
PCs don’t accidentally travel back in time
if they change threads!
SCENE GUIDE
3
A CORTEX PLAYTEST
A CORTEX PLAYTEST
Welcome and thank you for playtesting our tale! Before
diving into the Lost Oasis playtest, make sure you have a
copy of the Tales of Xadia Rules Primer handy. It outlines
many of the gameplay questions you and your friends may
have and tells you everything you need to play a session of
Tales of Xadia.
The Narrator for your group is the intended audience
for this document. “Welcome, Travelers!” (page 5) is
an introduction to share with the players, possibly as a
handout in advance.
To ensure that the mechanics are tested adequately while
you play, this playtest is generally less open world than the
Tales of Xadia RPG. It can be played in two ways:
Playtest Scenes: Several scenes, the first few after
the Prologue, are designed to highlight player choice
and gameplay. These are called out so that groups can
immediately experiment with some of the mechanics
without needing more than an hour of gameplay time.
The Narrator, or one of the players, might take notes
throughout and record how the scene went: which rules
seemed to work well, which didn’t seem to work as well,
and so on.
A Complete Playthrough: When played from start to
finish, Lost Oasis takes place over two acts that include
many scenes, some of which your players might not end
up engaging with. This likely takes a few hours to play
and isn’t necessary unless you and your friends want to
experience a full adventure with some closure. And who
knows? Some of the characters might be so fun that you
want to play them again in a future tale, with the Lost
Oasis a part of their past.
A Note on Difficulty: In most cases, we’ve provided the
difficulty dice for tests and challenges, based on the rules
in the Tales of Xadia Rules Primer. Most of the contests
in this playtest are with one of the two catalysts and use
their traits. As a reminder, Easy is ⑥⑥, Challenging
is ⑧⑧, Hard is ⑩⑩, and Very Hard is ⑫⑫. If you feel
like slightly increasing the difficulty on any test, you can
always add an additional ⑥ or two.
4
WELCOME, TRAVELERS!
Grab your friends and dive into this Tale of Xadia!
After counting yourselves lucky not to have suffered an illfate at the battle outside of the Storm Spire, a mysterious
tomb-delving Moonshadow elf named Feathershawl
(they/them) has commissioned your rag-tag crew to
investigate an abandoned city floating high across the
Xadian sky. The island is on a collision course with a
mountain range at the border, and the clock is ticking
to salvage a rare artifact from it; you don’t have time
to do your own research before you leave. Hopefully
Feathershawl is trustworthy! The city is called Innean,a
name that has escaped everyday conversation in Xadia for
a long time.
You’re hunting a powerful artifact called the Primal Well,
which conducts Sky and Earth magics through itself. It’s
a chest-sized chunk of marble, faceted like a diamond,
reverberating with the residual magic it collects from the
air around it. This is then redirected downward, pushing
the city of Innean to a great height in the sky. It’s the
kind of place that would perk up the ears (elven or no)
of any adventurer.
Feathershawl tells you that by the time you make it to the
mountains at the border, there’s only a 12-hour window
to ride to Innean on a magic beam of moonlight and get
in and out before the city is destroyed forever. Should be
an easy job, they tell you. There’s no bystanders that risk
getting hurt in an abandoned city. And Innean contains
everything from baubles to lost legends. Feathershawl
is obsessed with bringing this artifact back to the
Moonshadow elves, as they claim their people’s lives
depend on it. Sounds important!
Intense tour guide aside, it’s now off to the mountains
with you! What lies ahead?
Cute pigs!
Friendly chickens!
Magical artifacts that need rescuing?
You and your Narrator can find out for yourselves by
flying ahead, straight into the Lost Oasis!
WELCOME, TRAVELERS!
5
“I’VE GOT SOME QUESTIONS...”
“I’VE GOT SOME QUESTIONS…”
Make sure your players have read “Welcome, Travelers!”
(page 5). You may want to review it with them or read
it aloud.
Here are some questions your players might have as you
introduce the premise of the tale, along with possible
answers that you can read to your players or use to inspire
your own answers.
Why are we here, anyway?
Your group of companions has been approached by
a mysterious benefactor, a Moonshadow elf named
Feathershawl who claims to have discovered a floating city
lost to time. They tell you that centuries of natural wind
currents high in the atmosphere have steered this city,
called Innean, towards some mountains near the Border.
Now it’s perilously close to colliding with said mountains,
and you’re speeding toward this mountain range to get
there before the collision and the city’s destruction.
Why can’t Feathershawl do this themself ?
Feathershawl is only one elf, and they worry things will
get complicated. They say:
This artifact is simply too difficult for me to
extract alone. I’ve studied it, sure, but there’s
little to study. All I know is that I might need
the likes of you because even my rather capable
powers have their limits. If I’m honest, I’ve lost
both assets and confidence since being Ghosted by
Moonshadow society. However, I’m convinced I
can use this artifact to save lives and make up for
the shortcomings that brought me to that rather
traumatic ritual. Now, let’s hurry!
Weird how they’re hurrying. And why were they
Ghosted, anyway? Seems kind of suspicious. If not
for this whole “collision with a mountain” ticking
clock thing, you might get pushier.
What do I get out of this?
Feathershawl offers each of you a significant sum of
money to cover the journey and its risks, but promises the
abandoned city contains more than enough intrigue and
plunder to satisfy a spectrum of interests. They say:
I have my eye on one artifact in particular, that
Primal Well. Oh, if only I could bring it back to the
Moonshadow elders for the benefit of my people. You
see, my great flaw was I underestimated a plague
of worms that destroyed my people’s crops, and this
artifact could easily float the crops above the now
desperately infested soil. I truly hope this excursion will
not only help me but also my people.
Tell me, what is it exactly that you crave? Armor?
Weapons? Ancient tomes? Glowing jewels? Money?
Good will? A story for your grandchildren? I am sure
all of that and more lies inside Innean, though the
coins will be from another age. As long as we can get
my Primal Well, fill your pockets!
They make “filling pockets” sound WAY too easy, but they
sure do make jewels sound fun when they say “glowing.”
6
“I’VE GOT SOME QUESTIONS...”
Maybe I could do this
without Feathershawl?
They tell you that the journey requires their special Moon
magic cloak, which only they know how to use. They say:
I use my cloak to harness a major moonbeam only
present during this rare moon phase. The beam will
cross the mountainside, as well as the city of Innean
itself, for a mere 12-hour window! We shall glide up
the moonbeam as if it is a river of light and we float
upon a raft. No flying creature can fly so high and
brave the mighty winds. It’s me or nothing, I’m afraid.
Sorry I can’t reassure you more; time is of the essence,
and I need to bring sustenance to my people.
So, we need Feathershawl to get in and out. But it all feels
a little risky.
You’re sure it’s abandoned, Feathershawl?
Yes! Of course. There’s no record of it being in contact with
Xadia in centuries. It must be abandoned. Hurry, now!
So the PCs don’t have a choice about
starting the adventure with Feathershawl?
If this were an actual session of the Tales of
Xadia RPG, the players would have as many options
open to them as they could imagine. However, for a
playtest, it’s important to get straight to testing out
the mechanics, and the easiest way to do that is to
have some decisions already made.
So yes, this adventure is dependent on the PCs
going to Innean with Feathershawl. But they need
not stay with their guide, or even stay together.
In fact, some obstacles might prove easier if
the PCs choose to split up and follow scenes in
separate locations.
7
BACKGROUND FOR THE NARRATOR
BACKGROUND FOR THE NARRATOR
Feathershawl needs the player characters (PCs) to help
them recover an artifact from the lost city of Innean.
Nausics has his own agenda, and the townspeople just
want to survive the collision. These Narrator characters
(NCs) are important to the plot, and in Act One they all
try to endear themselves to the PCs.
Innean
Innean is a small floating, isolated, Brigadoon-like city
where a small population of Skywing elves has lived in
harmony for centuries, separated from the rest of Xadian
Skywing culture and unaware of Xadia’s politics and
conflicts with humans. Life has become more pastoral
than adventurous, as stratospheric winds quickly made
visiting Innean all but impossible and round trips to the
ground below are extremely unappealing. The city feels
the strain of its isolation, however, as people have begun
to disappear (later, players discover people have gone
missing as a result of Nausics’ experiments). Innean has
drifted west over the years and is now about to collide
with a mountainside along the Border. Feathershawl has
seen many hints that the city is still occupied through
their research, but they have conveniently left that out.
PCs are told the city is abandoned—until they arrive and
see differently.
Catalysts
Catalysts are Narrator characters whose values and
importance in the story change as the PCs interact
with them, even indirectly. Instead of attributes they
have a single catalyst die, which can step up or down
during a game. Otherwise they have distinctions, values,
specialties, and even assets just like PCs. Their values are
key to the way they change and grow in the tale.
The way players interact with catalysts alters the shape of
the story, and any NC they encounter has the potential to
be a valued ally or a vexing enemy as scenes and conflicts
continue. The catalysts of Lost Oasis are a Moonshadow
elf named Feathershawl (they/them) and a wingless
Skywing elf named Nausics (he/him). Early in Act One,
the two argue and become very distrustful of each other.
But it’s important to remember that they both value the
PCs and both do their best to endear themselves, at least
in Act One.
In this playtest tale, the two catalysts start out as ⑧
catalysts and can step up this die every time they succeed
in a contest that includes one of their primary values. As
their catalyst die steps up, so too does the value, and this
in turn steps down another value. As Narrator it’s your
responsibility to track these changing die ratings.
Many Paths
If your playtest session is short, don’t worry about
the many paths. Just visit one of the scenes marked
 and explore that path.
If you’re doing a full playthrough of the adventure, each
player in your group should decide whether to side with
one of the catalysts, focus on the evacuation of Innean, or
forge an altogether new path through this tale. There’s no
requirement for the group to stay together; players can
each choose a different thread to follow if they want.
Your players may divert the action entirely from the
proposed scenes, if you let them! You can use the NCs
and artifacts provided here to aid you in forging your own
adventure. If one of the minor characters seems to evolve
into a catalyst, you can upgrade them on the fly to suit the
story. (See “Succession” on page 32 for an example.)
Some text is written as though the Narrator is reading it
to the players, and you can do that if you like. But nothing
must be read verbatim. Borrow quotes and phrases all
you want, and paraphrase to suit your group’s tone and
playstyle. In the end, the way you play the NCs is up to
you; we provide some basics, but you bring them to life at
your table.
It’s important to remind your players that they don’t need
to stay together. This tale is designed so that things aren’t
inherently easier or “better” if the PCs pursue the same
path. The adage of Don’t split the party doesn’t apply here.
Replaying this adventure will get you different
interactions and outcomes, so don’t be shy. Suggest
another session with your players if they want to explore
some of what they missed. 
8
BACKGROUND FOR THE NARRATOR
Feathershawl is a tall, lanky, gender neutral Moonshadow
elf with quiet but grim eyes. Once an elder of the
Moonshadow elves, they were exiled for failing to honor
an oath that cost elves their lives, and though they never
meant to hurt anyone they’re ashamed to discuss how
horribly they’ve failed. Their focus is entirely on how to
rejoin their society after having been made into a Ghost—
something most exiled elves are unable to return from—
and they’ll stop at nothing to bring back the Primal Well
as proof of their commitment to Moonshadow elf culture.
They also have a literal magic cloak of owl feathers that
allows them to float along beams of moonlight during
special phases of the moon. They apologize to PCs for
their shrewd and myopic nature, but they’re also very
distracted by how little time there is and their dream
of returning to their people; they’re willing to sacrifice
manners to achieve their goal. This Primal Well simply
must work, they tell themselves, though there are no clear
routes to being welcomed back after being Ghosted.
They offer the PCs a significant sum of money—or any
other motivations that seem appropriate to enlist the
help of the PCs—but neglect to mention the Skywing
elves still occupying Innean after all these centuries. Once
on Innean, they spend little to no time fraternizing with
anyone unless they can provide information on the
Primal Well.
Feathershawl’s primary value is Liberty. They want not
only the Primal Well, but the opportunity it may provide
for Feathershawl to escape their Ghost status and rejoin
Moonshadow society. If they win a contest that involves
Liberty, their Liberty die as well as their catalyst die
steps up for each win, up to a ⑫. But for each of those
wins, another one of their value dice is stepped down at
the Narrator’s discretion. Particularly vulnerable to be
stepped down are Feathershawl’s sense of Mastery and
Truth, as each matters less the closer Feathershawl gets
to pulling off what is essentially a heist.
Moonshadow Elf ⑧
Exiled Moon Mage ⑧
Singlemindedly Acute ⑧
DISTIONCTIONS VALUES
Liberty ⑧
My survival and legacy are
deeply pressing concerns.
Mastery ⑧
Developing power can solve
most of my problems.
Truth ⑧
The relativity of truth is keeping
me alive.
Devotion ④
Love means little if it makes
you powerless.
Glory ⑧
Achievements are a powerful
currency for me.
Justice ⑥
All crimes are relative to
their effect.
FEATHERSHAWL
Catalyst ⑧
History ⑧
Moon Magic ⑩
SPECIALTIES SIGNATURE ASSET
Owlfeather Cloak ⑧
9
BACKGROUND FOR THE NARRATOR
Nausics is a stocky, older Skywing elf with elaborate
facial tattoos. Like most Skywing elves in Innean, he was
born without wings. This Innean elder is the Keeper of
the Primal Well. He’s known for years that Innean was
drifting towards the mountains and he hopes to take the
Primal Well with him during the inevitable evacuation.
He has secretly forsaken his oath to not touch the Primal
Well—by luring citizens into his keep and convincing
them to try to hold the Well. His experiments haven’t
been successful. The frozen bodies of these elves are kept
in a lair beneath Nausics’ study, at the end of a staircase
hidden behind a bookshelf. After many failures, Nausics
now has armor—the Cuirass of Vuxen commissioned
from the local blacksmith, who is proficient in weaving
powerful Sky magic into the city’s rare metals—which
should allow the wearer to carry the Well.
Nausics’ lies have drawn lines on his face, though he
hides it behind the warm demeanor of a respected public
figure. He’s eager to tell someone the truth and repent
for his horrible experiments, something he believed was
necessary but hated to do.
Nausics is driven primarily by the value of Truth. He
is desperate to confess his sins to someone, and he stops
at nothing to make PCs complicit in his redemption
quest involving the Cuirass of Vuxen. By succeeding
in contests of Truth, his Truth value die rating steps
up, along with his catalyst die, up to a ⑫. But for each
of those wins, another one of his values is stepped down
at the Narrator’s discretion. Particularly vulnerable to
be stepped down are Nausics’ sense of Mastery and
Justice as he descends into his obsession.
Cuirass of Vuxen and the Primal Well
Forged in Innean by the local blacksmith, Vuxen, this
cuirass redirects Earth and Sky magic energy around the
wearer in ribbons that orbit them, rather than the wearer
becoming frozen by the powerful magic forces. It is an
asset, the Cuirass of Vuxen ⑩.
If anyone touches the Primal Well without wearing
Nausics’ Cuirass of Vuxen to protect themselves from
its powerful magic, the person making contact might be
frozen into a magical statue. If they do find the armor, the
Primal Well is rather simple to pick up.
Skywing Elf ⑧
Keeper of the Primal Well ⑧
Dark Secrets ⑧
DISTIONCTIONS VALUES
Liberty ⑧
I am a servant to my people,
whether they understand
or not.
Mastery ⑧
To know a power is to
control the future.
Truth ⑧
Patience may keep me
from being transparent,
but I mean well.
Devotion ⑥
I remember the love of others
like a nostalgic dream.
Glory ④
I am genuinely selfless in
my pursuit of freedom
for Innean.
Justice ⑧
I see the greater good and
the sacrifices needed with
brutal clarity.
NAUSICS
Catalyst ⑧
Stewardship ⑧
Sky Magic ⑩
SPECIALTIES SIGNATURE ASSET
Necklace of Warning ⑧
10
SCENE STRUCTURE
Lost Oasis is told in two acts, each made up of scenes
involving the three intertwining threads. The point in the
tale at which the first act ends and the second one begins
is the collision of Innean with the mountainside.
Threads
Three threads lace through the story: one with each of
the two catalysts, the third involving the evacuation of
Innean’s townspeople.
Each player chooses a thread to follow; it’s not required
for the group to stay together, and probably preferable if
they split up to deal with multiple threads through the
adventure. Depending on the scene, this may mean PCs
are separated from each other, or are at least entering from
different directions. Players can create their own threads if
they wish, and we offer suggestions for additional scenes
(page 32).
However…
…The three narrative threads forge ahead with or without
the attention of the PCs, and there are consequences for
neglecting them.
Anyone who went with a catalyst has a harder time
getting off the island if someone else isn’t helping the
evacuation effort. If nobody helps the catalysts, their final
confrontation is offstage and lacks a mediator, and you
should consider additional ways the landscape might
suffer, both narratively speaking and the actual earthand-stone landscape that may shatter in the ensuing
showdown.
Only by playing effectively and somehow nurturing all
three threads can players save the most lives and get away
with the Primal Well.
ANOTHER TALE
We hope you enjoy this story, and if your players grow
attached to their characters and would like to keep going,
go right ahead! These catalysts might continue to have
relationships with characters, or you might have your own
ideas for new ones. We hope your finale leaves the door
open for adventures that you and your friends
weave together!
PROLOGUE
After a long period of floating upwards, from the side of
the mountains at Xadia’s border and along a pale beam
of moonlight, the PCs arrive in Innean with a loud
WHOOOMP, the violet magic that brought them to the
island still swirling around them in tufts. Everyone adjusts
to the unusual feeling that they stand upon floating
earth. The spell that Feathershawl’s been casting for the
journey transitions to an illumination spell that lights
up the area around them. Boots are all now planted in a
small stone courtyard, in the supposedly abandoned city
of Innean. Although, it looks curiously clean and wellkept. The soft purple light of Feathershawl’s spell reveals
that the cobblestone isn’t dirty or dusty, it appears swept,
and the high stone walls around the edges of the city are
occasionally broken up by archways that once led outside
of town. Raised bridges close the archways, apparently
built by an optimist who imagined a controlled landing
more than a collision.
Everyone feels the sensation that they’re slowly drifting
west towards the looming mountainside. The PCs
hear Feathershawl mutter, “Well, that’s interesting!” to
themself. The pale purple moonbeam magic continues to
arc and swirl from their fingertips, only now it seems to be
pulled forcibly between the buildings and towards some
sort of keep at the center of town.
A small chicken skitters around
the corner, intrigued by the
bright alien magic.
PROLOGUE – ARRIVING ON INNEAN
Give players an opportunity to establish their
characters here at the very beginning of your tale—
they might deliver a clever one-liner about the
chicken or the landing, remark on something they
find interesting, etc.
As a catalyst, Feathershawl is a crucial character
for the plot, and the shape of the story changes
depending on how PCs interact with them. Do
your best to convey that, though a bit abrasive,
Feathershawl’s quest to end their Ghosted exile from
Moonshadow culture isn’t entirely selfish and they
truly want to bring prosperity back to their people.
Despite their occasional brusqueness, they seem
genuinely grateful to have the PCs with them. The
loss that motivates Feathershawl underlies a lot of
their interactions. For instance, if PCs make fun of
their name, Feathershawl might remark that it’s the
only thing they have left of their family, and let any
possible uncomfortable silence be felt.
12
Wiggy, a small chicken
The first creature to scope out the party, Wiggy
is a proud hen who suffers no fools and loves
the child Pereka dearly. She enjoys perching on
shoulders and being coddled; she tends to seek
out the nearest high-status person and cling to
them for clout.
All livestock in Innean are considered the
community’s responsibility and no one’s property,
so no one stops a PC from picking up or keeping
Wiggy. This hen is called Wiggy because of her
wig-like floppy head feathers, but she can learn
to respond to a new name. Innean chickens have
crossed beaks, where the top of the beak angles a
bit to one side and the bottom to the other, because
they’re used to being hand-fed.
If frightened, Wiggy lays an egg, but won’t leave
it under any circumstances. This can become
awkward when the egg is laid on a person’s
shoulder, but she has perfected advanced
beak-wing-and-foot juggling techniques to keep the
egg secure on a person’s shoulder as if in a nest.
ACT ONE – RABBLE RABBLE
If you’re playing this scene alone as a playtest, remember
to give your players a summary of the notes and Prologue.
Tell them they’ve just landed, the island needs evacuating,
the clock is ticking, and their guide Feathershawl didn’t
tell them people would be here in the first place. They’ll be
able to split off into the next three scenes, and you can either
continue to those scenes or simply stop once you’ve found
opportunities to give your players a test or contest.
Innean is a city stuck in time, centuries ago. PCs who
are familiar with Skywing culture find the scenery eerily
familiar yet alien, as even some of the writing on signs has
drifted into a strange dialect. This self-sufficient society
seems to show a learned simplicity and peace.
It’s quite clear that this city is occupied and there was
some serious omission of that fact. There’s what looks like
a functioning library, a functioning blacksmith, and the
noises of civilization. Only a few shops appear to have
been recently boarded up, as if their occupants have
gone missing.
Invite players to question Feathershawl, who’s been nice
enough but is now unquestionably distracted by the spell
they’re casting. Purple swirls arch dramatically from their
fingers. PCs with any magical abilities notice the odd trail
the spell leaves as it drifts, compass-like, towards the keep.
Suggest that the players discuss amongst themselves what
they think the best course of action is now that there are
potentially people to save.
Remember to let Feathershawl be changed by how PCs
treat them; they are dynamic in their tone just like the
PCs your friends control.
If approached with any hostility, Feathershawl defends
their continued casting of this spell, but players can try
to stop them. Here’s what that contest might look like,
though you can encourage approaches other than the
suggested dice as the player assembles their dice pool.
Even if the PCs fail to stop Feathershawl from casting
now, eventually the spell must end—they can’t keep
casting forever—at which point the consequences of
ending the spell occur as described for a success.
ACT ONE – RABBLE, RABBLE
13
CONTEST: Convince Feathershawl
to stop casting the spell
• Devotion: Tell Feathershawl there are more
important things to cast than this spell
• Truth: Insist that no magical shenanigans are
allowed until they come clean about why there’s
a chicken and tidy streets in this abandoned city
If players succeed, Feathershawl relents, but
with immediate consequences. As soon as the spell
stops, the entire city shudders and shakes, tilting
what seems like a full ten degrees for a moment.
PCs hear voices in the distance cry out in fear,
voices they were promised wouldn’t be present in
this supposedly abandoned city that Feathershawl
had so carefully researched.
“Maybe you should have let me keep that spell
going, huh?” they retort, though they also admit,
“I wasn’t sure what would happen there, wish I’d
known better.” Innean’s ground levels out again,
but now it seems to glide through the air faster.
Everyone has the distinct (and unfortunate)
impression that it will collide with the mountains
much sooner than originally expected.
If players fail the contest, Feathershawl
continues casting, eyeing the flow of the purple light
as townspeople begin to arrive. PCs take Insecure
stress equal to the effect die on Feathershawl’s
successful roll as they realize that not only is
Feathershawl hiding something, but another
shoe may be about to drop. 
ACT ONE – RABBLE RABBLE
Regardless of the outcome of the contest, Feathershawl is
more focused after the distracting conversation. “We must
hurry off to work! Lives are in the balance!”
This mission hasn’t only gone wrong, it may have
a lot more moral obligation than was promised by
Feathershawl, who appears more interested in slipping
away than addressing the PCs directly.
An increasingly large crowd of Skywing elves surrounds
the PCs, with more chickens and a pig underfoot. None
of them were supposed to be here.
Beebee, the small pig
An inquisitive pig about the size of a French
bulldog starts scoping out the party’s feet with its
snout. Innean pigs have developed short wool to
stay warm at high altitudes, as well as short horns
for digging grubs out from between cobblestones.
Beebee considers everything that fits in its
mouth either food or something to play fetch with.
Overtly friendly and overly trusting, it either wants
to play, eat, or nap. It also occasionally rolls on its
back, inviting PCs to rub its belly.
PCs can give Beebee a new name if they choose,
and it considers responding after being addressed
by it once or twice. It’s happy to join the party if
invited and can be convinced to do many simple
tasks if vigorously tousled.
Feathershawl rushes up to one of the elves, an older man
with elaborate face tattoos who appears to carry himself
with some authority (this is Nausics). PCs can hear
their conversation if they follow Feathershawl, but the
thick crowd follows, insistent on getting a lift out of
the floating city.
Feathershawl and Nausics argue…
“Please, old man. Take me to the Primal Well
immediately. I am your only hope of leaving here
alive, and I have my own people to save. Let’s go!”
“Old man? Listen here, I am no uneducated fool,
and I am not scared of you. I have my own magic.
With an opening line like that, I certainly won’t help
you and your magical mystery cape fly off with the
most precious artifact in my home.”
Regardless of whether they’re overheard, everyone can see
that Feathershawl and Nausics are growing frustrated with
each other. Feathershawl stomps away and begins to eye
the keep, pacing up and down the cobblestone. If any PCs
are suspicious about hidden truths, they may want to stop
Feathershawl from getting even one step away. Innean
elves, including Nausics, are beginning to approach.
Some point to the looming mountains. The pig snuffles at
everyone’s feet.
What do the players choose to do? Reassure them
that they don’t need to all stick together and won’t be
punished through gameplay if they temporarily part ways.
There are multiple plot threads forming that they should
consider focusing on. They could:
• Check in with Feathershawl and try to stop them
from stomping away.
• Approach Nausics, who is actively vying for
their attention.
• Talk with the townspeople, particularly the ones
worried about their impending collision with
the mountain.
What happens next is up to the players. They may proceed
as a united front or have separate scenes. If the players
choose to do nothing, Nausics approaches the PCs.
14
ACT ONE – RABBLE RABBLE
Feathershawl
If the players choose to follow Feathershawl as their
continued guide, they move on to the scene Extraction
(page 16). But if players perceive Feathershawl as a threat,
they may want to stop them altogether. In this case, have
a contest; here’s some suggestions for players assembling
that dice pool.
Once Feathershawl is subdued or breaks free of the
crowd, they end their spell if it’s still going, causing the
convenient distraction of the island city briefly tilting
and chaos ensuing as the island seems to speed up. If
Feathershawl stopped the spell earlier (page 13), there’s
already enough chaos for them to create a distraction.
Nausics
The Skywing elder is ushering any PCs who agree to go
with him into his keep for safety, and for an important
conversation he wishes to have with these outsiders.
Feathershawl can only be dragged into the keep alongside
Nausics if they are forced to—kicking and screaming—as
they don’t wish to waste time placating him.
If the players choose to speak to Nausics, proceed to
An Eager Invitation (page 18).
Townspeople
Players who choose to talk with the townspeople now
face a test to win over the crowd, collaborating on an
evacuation. You can leave the “how” up to players; these
are suggestions if you and your players aren’t sure how to
approach the situation. The listed traits are merely one
aspect of the dice pool they’re building, depending on
how they want to approach the situation.
15
CONTEST: Stop Feathershawl from
running off to another location
• Devotion: Appeal to their better nature
• Justice: Appeal to their sense of fairness
• Truth: Insist they owe you and these people an
explanation of what’s going on
• Strength: Grab Feathershawl
If players fail the contest but insist on following
Feathershawl as they dart off, proceed to Extraction
(page 16) with that new hostility (and some
Exhausted or Angry stress on the PC) in mind.
If players fail and decide to ignore Feathershawl
for now as they go hunt for the Primal Well, they
take Exhausted or Angry stress and proceed to
either An Eager Invitation (page 18) or Mass Flight
(page 19).
If players succeed, they can proceed how they
wish. Perhaps they pin Feathershawl to the ground.
Perhaps they demand Feathershawl become more
polite for the moment or make them admit that
they never really focused on collateral damage,
hoping the town would evacuate before you all
got there. Feathershawl mutters about their own
people starving, no less in need of saving than these
Skywings. But Feathershawl is temporarily stopped,
hoping to slip away soon.
TEST: Get the crowd to trust the PCs with
evacuation (Challenging + Crowd )
• Liberty: Tell the crowd you want to bring them
safely to your lands below
• Justice: Announce that, though you came
here to explore, you see lives need saving and
wish to help
• Devotion: Announce that you will do your best
to help save every life
The crowd is gasping “Who are you?” and
“Please, help us evacuate!” Depending on how this
goes, consider if the crowd interactions create an
asset or a complication for players.
If players fail, they take an appropriate stress
and become a bystander as an NC takes the lead
or the crowd looks to another PC, proceed to
Mass Flight (page 19).
If players succeed and mingle with the crowd to
address their cries for an evacuation plan, proceed
to Mass Flight (page 19).
ACT ONE – RABBLE RABBLE
What Next?
Thus ends your big opening scene!
If your players express an interest in an option not listed
here, you should read ahead and consider the other likely
outcomes (in particular the reactions of the catalysts,
who both take note of how the PCs proceed) and create
your own improvised action and bridge scenes that
guide the tale towards the inevitable collision and one
of the possible first scenes of Act Two. Take the reins,
clever Narrator; you can forge your own version of the
story! Just remember to include tests, contests, and/or
challenges in each scene to give them a sense of
deeper purpose.
You’ve also had some chances to try some testsand
contests, so thanks for trying that out!
ACTION SCENE –
EXTRACTION
Do any PCs accompany Feathershawl?
If you’re just playing this as a playtest scene, it’s not very
long, so we recommend playing Act One – Rabble Rabble
and reviewing the Prologue first!
Assess how much PCs have warmed up to Feathershawl
thus far. If PCs are joining Feathershawl now, but nobody
has yet confronted Feathershawl about their spell
(page 13) or trying to break away (page 15), consider
adapting elements of those contests for a new
contest here.
If Feathershawl gets a chance to start sharing a plan,
they lean in with excitement, relieved to have the PCs
on their side. If every PC is in the huddle with them,
they also acknowledge that the townspeople might want
some assistance.
“Extracting the artifact is going to be… difficult,”
Feathershawl says, eyeing the PCs to see if they have
any taggers-on from the crowd. If PCs have NCs in
tow, Feathershawl quietly tells PCs to meet them by the
inn next to that great stone keep where their magic led.
Feathershawl runs off and attempts to disappear down
an alley.
Players can choose to chase them down rather than wait,
facing a contestagainst the secretive Feathershawl. The
townspeople continue to wait, should players decide they
don’t agree with the following plan and wish to join the
townspeople instead. As players assemble their dice pool,
here’s a couple of ideas on where to start.
Feathershawl expresses their plan, first venting... 
That one with the elaborate facial tattoos, Nausics, he
claims to want to save the artifact but is obsessed with
irrelevant customs and... something about a confession?
Give me a break. Distract him if you like, but I suspect
he’s best avoided if we’re to get out of here in time.
Now that the city is moving a little quicker, ahem, I
suspect we only have an hour or so before a collision
with the mountain. And even then, only a little longer
before the entire city crumbles and the artifact is
possibly destroyed. Will you help me?
If PCs agree, Feathershawl lays out their plan to search
for a hidden entrance to the keep. It requires all the
PCs’ focus and means ignoring the pleas of worried
townspeople. And the PCs can hear them calling “We
must evacuate, now!” in the nearby square.
16
CONTEST: Catch up with Feathershawl
as they flee
• Agility: Run as fast as you can
• Spirit: Plead for them to slow down
so you can catch up
Any new Innean pals politely wait in the street
during such a chase. If caught, Feathershawl offers
a more frustrated version of the following scene,
because if PCs wanted to skip a chase, they should
have just gotten rid of those pesky townspeople in
the first place. Catch on to that whole sneaky heist
vibe, ya know?
Clearly Feathershawl has a one-track mind. Players who
wish to force them to confront any truths or morality
must win a contestagainst Feathershawl. Here’s three
examples to get part of a player’s dice pool started.
If the PCs haven’t followed this thread, this conversation
might happen later, rather than in this particular scene.
17
CONTEST: Get Feathershawl to fess up to the full story
• Spirit: Get them to agree to confess for
team morale
• Devotion: Out of a concern for the people
in town insist they explain their motives
• Truth: If they won’t be honest, they can’t
be trusted
Feathershawl hems and haws about how the
collision probably won’t be fatal, but with a success
they admit that they’d hoped the townspeople would
simply lower the bridges on their gates when Innean
drifted close enough. Maybe the PCs would even
provide a distraction while Feathershawl went to find
the Well.
Feathershawl also confesses that they aren’t just no
longer welcome among their people; they’re a former
elder, fallen from the grace the higher status elves
enjoy. They hope that something like the Primal Well
won’t just redeem them with their family but reinstate
their entire way of life. They remain resolved to the
task at hand and won’t be especially keen to discuss
their shame, but they hope this admission of privilege
will garner them a little more trust from PCs.
If the PCs are allied with this catalyst, this is an
important contest. If the PCs succeed, Feathershawl
remembers the conversation, is more likely to defend
the PCs, and their catalyst die is stepped up. This
makes them more formidable in an escape and more
likely to intervene if an NC gets in a PC’s way as they
improvise something risky. Overall, success should
cue you as Narrator to treat the catalyst in a new way
during the rest of this tale.
If players fail, Feathershawl continues to be
relatively cold, thinking of PCs more as means to an
end than as allies, and PCs take Angry or Insecure
stress. When asked whether they knew about the city
being occupied, Feathershawl simply sighs and rolls
their eyes, insisting, “Will you help me save my people
from starvation, or not?” PCs can then either rejoin
another thread, noting the evacuation only a street
or two away, or agree to Feathershawl’s terms and
proceed to Overdue Notice (page 23).
ACT ONE – RABBLE RABBLE
ACTION SCENE –
AN EAGER INVITATION
Do any PCs go along with Nausics?
If you’re just playing this as a playtest scene, it’s not all that
long. We recommend reviewing the Prologue and playing
Act One – Rabble Rabble first!
The Skywing elder with elaborate facial tattoos introduces
himself as Nausics, the Keeper of the Primal Well.
“Welcome, welcome to Innean!” he says warmly, hurrying
you into his keep as voices carry through the now-windy
streets. “I’m so sorry to distract you from the evacuation,
but my people are wise and I know they are destined to
figure something out. Please, I need a desperate moment
of your time.”
The face of the keep is simple and more rustic than the
rest of already rural Innean. The keep’s wall stones are
dark, flat, and round, harvested from a natural riverbed
the city long ago left the geographic vicinity of.
Nausics wants to know how PCs got to Innean, asking
with an element of distaste how well they know
Feathershawl. He prefers to address a familiar-seeming
Skywing if one is amongst the PCs, but he’s warm to
all PCs.
Nausics asks the PCs to sit and eat of the local harvest and
drink of the local vineyard, all while learning of Innean’s
history. Like a proper mayor he seems eager to share the
best of his town, but unlike one he seems to be in shock
and unable to react normally to the imminent collision.
If PCs ask questions regarding specific townspeople or
buildings, he furrows his brow and demures, saying he
doesn’t get out much and hasn’t much to say about other
people. He only wants to speak of his days in the Well’s
keep, the Keepers of old, long dead leaders of the past, and
what a lovely stew he’s made. It might seem rather odd,
and PCs might want to call out the idea of sitting and
eating at a time like this.
To learn anything more about Innean from him and grind
his rambling customs to a halt, players must win a contest
against Nausics.
Here’s some suggestions of things players might want
to use in their dice pool if they want to engage in
this contest.
Regardless, he expresses that Feathershawl insisted on
skipping dinner and wanted to see the Well immediately,
which he found impossibly rude. He adds, “The Well
needs a Keeper, you see, because of its power. To touch
it without guidance will likely destroy you, and I myself
have taken an oath that would cause me to crumble into
dust if I even dared to lay a finger on it.”
Unless PCs choose to run right out of the building,
proceed to More Than a Mouthful (page 24). Nausics
checks to see if any other PCs outside might be convinced
to join him and may make a passing remark that he
believes this meeting in his keep is more important than
“panicking” to evacuate. He’s in charge here for a reason,
he assures the PCs, though he twitches nervously with
what he wishes to divulge next.
18
CONTEST: Get Nausics to get to the point
• Truth: Insist that food and stories all seem
like a distraction
• Devotion: Explain that lives will be lost if
you don’t hurry
If players succeed, Nausics admits he’s known
for some time that Innean might collide with the
mountains soon, and it’s caused him to become
even more emotionally distant from his people. He’s
rambling on and on because this is the last meal
he’ll have in his home, and he apologizes profusely.
For PCs allied with this catalyst, this is an important
contest. If the PCs succeed, he remembers this
moment and it affects how he treats the PCs who
succeeded from now on. He becomes a steadfast
ally for the PCs and his catalyst die is stepped up.
If players fail, Nausics wraps an arm around a
PC and talks of how well the bounty of the local
gardens makes for a hearty broth that, “You’ll likely
never find in Xadia again.”
ACTION & BRIDGE SCENE –
MASS FLIGHT
Do any PCs stay to help the townspeople with
the evacuation?
If you’re just playing this as a playtest scene, we
recommend reviewing the Prologue and Act One –
Rabble Rabble first! But this is a big scene we’re
looking forward to, which includes a challenge!
It’s time to plan an evacuation! Window-cakes in some
bakeries have tilted as a result of Feathershawl’s citytipping magic surge, and everyone is eager to help. But
can you meet the challenge? The townspeople are bright
and brave, so if PCs are already panicking don’t be afraid
to have an NC reassure them that all things are possible!
If your players are having trouble figuring out their
options, see “What’s the Plan?” on page 22.
19
CHALLENGE: Help evacuate Innean!
(Challenging, Medium    )
Impress upon your players that they should
strategize how to get rid of the dice in your
challenge pool. This is a ⑧⑧⑧⑧  challenge, as it
is a Challenging difficulty (⑧⑧) and of Medium
length (+2 dice) if there are, say, 4 players in this
scene. Feel free to add or subtract a die depending
on whether there are more or fewer players than
that. And of course, here’s some dice PCs might
want to assemble to beat the pool.
• Awareness: Find a fortified place to hide
• Strength: Gather resources and supplies to help
• Intellect: Plan a way off the island
• Spirit: Reassure and calm the people
Each PC has a turn to roll against the challenge
pool, declaring what their part of the evacuation
plan is, rolling the dice, and comparing their effect
die against the challenge pool’s dice (⑧). If the
effect die is ⑩ or greater, one of the challenge
dice is removed. If the effect die is ⑧ or lower,
one of the challenge dice is stepped down (and can
be removed on subsequent turns with a ⑧ effect
die). After all the players have taken their turns, the
challenge pool can target one of the PCs and try to
deal Afraid, Exhausted, or Insecure stress.
ACT ONE – RABBLE RABBLE
Townspeople of Note
No visitors have come to Innean in centuries and the elves
not only have questions, but theories. For the ensuing
interactions with the people of Innean, choose from the
provided list of NCs, or create your own. Let players
find solutions on their own through their choices and
successes; none of these NCs have all the solutions handy.
Nekrex
Nekrex (he/him) is the captain of the guard. He wears
simple armor and wields a light club. He’s used to merely
putting drunks in the drunk tank and other very light
police work, and he’s never had to think about life outside
of Innean. He’s thoroughly confused as to what the PCs
even represent. He’s never seen much trouble beyond
some reckless youth and an occasional wayward vulture
attacking the hens, and his impression of an authority
figure is based almost entirely off of what he’s read in a
manual passed on to him by his predecessor, the previous
captain, Gormuss. Though he announces himself formally
with “In the name of Innean, stand down and announce
y-y-your intentions!” he’s terribly nervous and eager to
please. He accompanies the party if they wish, though if
the party next encounters Nausics, Nausics is rather wary
of whether Nekrex puts a kink in his master plan. Nekrex
is very outgoing regardless of how PCs might proceed and
should step forward in a pinch.
Siftress and Pondaryss
Siftress (she/her) and Pondaryss (she/her) are eager
to get the party’s full attention and discuss portents and
evacuation, respectively. They work together, clear voices
for evacuation.
Pereka and Olanna
The young girl Pereka (she/her) and the animals (see
Wiggy on page 12 and Beebee on page 14) are tugging
at the PCs’ pant legs, hoping to tag along with whatever
happens next. Wiggy is especially fond of Pereka. Olanna
(she/her) also begins to follow closely, listening eagerly to
any plans. Both can be shooed away but are eager to chat
up a receptive visitor.
Nekrex is captain of the guard, a kind of folksy,
small-town, elected position—the only other guards
are volunteers—and has the only proper (though
non-magical) armor in town. He’ll accompany
the party as protection, if they ask, but can’t stop
turning the topic back to why they don’t just try
to fortify Innean’s foundation, because there’s
some really nice sports (field tag) and vegetablefermented ales (cloud turnip cider) here that he’d
hate to go without if forced to evacuate. Though
not capable as much more than a warm body, he
does carry a small club.
NEKREX
Captain of the Guard ⑧ Proud ⑥
Ceremonial Armor ⑥
20
ACT ONE – RABBLE RABBLE
Pondaryss is an elderly, crotchety woman who
agrees that everyone must evacuate, but thinks
the PCs are actually a group of tricksome ghosts
planning to lead them into oblivion. She is bemused
but ultimately resigned to this fate and copes by
taunting PCs for being so cruel and meddlesome at
a time when someone should be building a series of
magic hang gliders instead. If she ever meets folks in
the land below, she’ll of course also accuse them of
being ghosts.
PONDARYSS
Ghost Whisperer ⑥ Clever ⑥
Siftress claims to have seen the fall of Innean
coming…and though the town and party might
doubt her, she really did. A light user of Sky magic,
she saw the wind of fate that would carry Innean
into the mountain months ago and warned Nausics
of it. 
SIFTRESS
Skywing Mage ⑥ Helpful ⑥
PEREKA
Fearless ⑩ Animal Friend ⑥
Pereka is a young girl who’s put in peril rather
easily. She expresses an interest in following the
PCs around but tries not to influence their choices.
If allowed to tag along, she’s unafraid of virtually
everything and asks endless, rapid-fire questions
about the world of Xadia below Innean. She has
some chewing gum made from local tree root she
offers in a pinch if she thinks it will soothe PCs.
21
ACT ONE – RABBLE RABBLE
Olanna is a young woman, sharp and direct and
used to getting her way. She asks to accompany
the PCs, and insists they focus almost entirely on
the escape. She has no combat usefulness but
does try to rally a rescue operation regardless of
PC proximity and collaboration. Expect to see her
stay behind to get every last elf off of the city island
when it collides.
OLANNA
Forthright ⑥ Headstrong ⑥
What’s the Plan?
It’s all systems go as PCs hurry to set up an evacuation
via one of the plans listed here, or with one the players
come up with. But before evacuation, they must brace the
organized townsfolk for impact—in the middle of town,
but slightly closer to the west side, so as to avoid being in
direct contact with the impact or part of a now crumbling
city, yet close enough that there isn’t far to run to get
off of Innean. For anyone in this scene, the catalysts are
difficult to reach until they’ve finished their business with
the Primal Well and are beginning their escape.
Hang Gliders
Pondaryss (page 21) has a rather goofy plan to create
magically reinforced hang gliders out of palm fronds,
branches, and Sky magic. Though far-fetched, a little PC
enthusiasm persuades the magically studied locals Noko
(page 32) and Siftress (page 21) to discuss and debate
what they know about ancient imbuements of Sky magic
on physical material that just might work. PCs need to
succeed at a Hard test (⑩⑩) using Mastery to help
the town pull off making enough for everyone. Helpful
NCs can contribute dice to the player’s dice pool.
Portable Bridge
Olanna (see above) is particularly adept at scouting
solutions, and if PCs rely on her she realizes that some
quick organization could get an entire bridge in town that
spans a small chasm to be removed and repurposed as a
portable bridge that can be secured and used to evacuate
onto the mountain wherever the island makes contact,
provided the collision itself doesn’t send everyone straight
down the mountainside. To see this physically herculean
construction effort through with Olanna, players need to
pass a Hard test (⑩⑩) using Glory.
Town guard captain Nekrex (page 20) makes sure the
bridge is moved safely and efficiently, if asked, providing a
⑧ asset.
Convenient Cliffs
If given any responsibilities, Pereka (page 21) takes some
elves to the edge of the city and discovers evidence of
some cliffs on the mountainside, a way some elves might
be able to escape down to more relative safety. Players
need to pass a Challenging test (⑧⑧) of Devotion if
one wants to spread the word of Pereka’s observation to
the entire population.
THE COLLISION
Unfortunately, the collision has its consequences. As
the dust settles, a large cave is revealed in the side of the
mountain. At first there are cheers from the people of
Innean. A safe, level path off of the main body of Innean!
And most of the town is standing, hooray! But suddenly,
massive centipede-like creatures lurch out of the cave
with horrible screeches. As the shrieks fill the PCs’ ears,
continue this thread with Roars of Freedom (page 29). The
current scene, Mass Flight, also serves as a bridge scene
into the collision, so PCs who help with the evacuation go
straight to Act Two for their next scene.
22
Bailynn, Innean’s librarian, is on her way out with as
many books as she can carry. She pauses when seeing PCs,
who now face a test to see if they can convince her to give
them free rein of her beloved building.
ACT ONE – RABBLE RABBLE
If players see the plans forming with catalysts and wish
to split off to join one of those more solitary elves, they
need to make a Challenging test (⑧⑧) to escape cleanly,
or else the crowd insists that PCs are critical to their
evacuation, and the PC takes Insecure stress for trying
to abandon them in their hour of need.
Both catalysts wouldn’t mind help; in fact, Nausics is even
more insistent that PCs ignore evacuation efforts and
join him instead. Feathershawl, however, is now harder to
talk to with adders-on, requiring a possible repeat of the
contest in Extraction (page 16) where they try to duck
into an alley at the sight of townspeople.
BRIDGE SCENE –
OVERDUE NOTICE
Do any PCs help Feathershawl look for the Primal Well?
Pleased that PCs are joining them, Feathershawl scouts
the buildings adjacent to the Well’s keep, looking for
basements that might allow for an underground passage
to the Well’s chambers, which they are convinced is one
floor below ground. They also apologize for not making
nice with Nausics, but they assure you they anticipated a
magical seal around the Primal Well and planned for such
a contingency.
They scout three buildings, remarking dispassionately
about each.
“An inn? Here? Must be for wayward souls more than
visitors. What a depressing concept.” 
“A craft shop? Look at all the chicken feather jewelry.
You’d think they’d have access to more birds than that,
this high up in the sky. Not exactly my style.”
“A library? Ugh. With a town this small it must be all
fiction. Those kinds of books are truly life’s dullest! But
that’s our best bet for a basement, let’s go.”
PCs hear distant shouts that evacuations efforts are
underway, but Feathershawl appears quite unmoved.
If asked about it, they simply remind the PCs that this
artifact represents hope for people both here and across
Xadia. However, it’s clear that they are obsessed with
the Primal Well and it has led to them lying in the past,
particularly regarding the city having a living population.
TEST: Get access to the library (Easy )
• Suggested traits: Spirit or Intellect
If there’s a success, Bailynn happily allows the
group in and Feathershawl misleadingly promises,
“We simply want to leave with as much of Innean’s
history as we can carry.”
If PCs fail, Feathershawl harshly nudges Bailynn
aside with a muted apology. She looks at PCs in
horror, who can then easily follow Feathershawl
or re-evaluate their thread one last time. (Note: if
Feathershawl pushes Bailynn, both Feathershawl
and PCs have their Justice die stepped down by one
until the end of the tale.)
The Collision
After hurrying past dusty shelves and a desk with a halfeaten sandwich on it, Feathershawl finds the wall adjacent
to the keep. Moonlight peers down the staircase and
they reflect it onto the wall, causing bricks to float away,
revealing a second, darker wall of bricks belonging to the
lower level of the keep. As these bricks peel away, PCs
suddenly lurch forward. Shelves fly everywhere, separating
everyone from Feathershawl for at least the moment.
Innean has collided with the mountain. Proceed to
Moon Steals Earth and Sky (page 27).
23
Meanwhile, back in the study, astute PCs—having been
told not to—touch everything. 
Whether PCs are in the study with the artifacts and
books or in the den with Nausics himself, a contest using
Truth reveals Nausics’ hubris. He’s hiding something
dreadful.
ACT ONE – RABBLE RABBLE
CONTEST: Get Nausics to show
you his secret
• Suggested traits: Truth
With a success in the den, Nausics reveals that
he’s convinced more than a few Innean residents to
try to touch the Primal Well with various iterations
of his magical armor, the Cuirass of Vuxen, and
they’ve all been frozen. The armor he wants a PC to
wear, he admits, is the result of much suffering.
If the PC fails, Nausics clams up before he admits
the worst, and simply moves to getting PCs to try
the armor. The PC takes appropriate stress.
BRIDGE SCENE –
MORE THAN A MOUTHFUL
Do the PCs go with Nausics into the keep?
The waiting area is decorated with Innean artifacts,
portraits of Keepers past, and historical links to the
Skywings of Xadia below such as old tableware
and pottery.
To the left is a dining room with a pleasant den built in.
A warm hearth with a boiling broth, a dinner table with a
local root prepared, some kind of unusual lute hanging on
the wall—a cozy spot for stories to be sure. To the right is
a study with more artifacts and books and a desk.
Ahead, there’s a stairwell behind a translucent, glowing
blue wall of magic. It’s clear, given the context, that the
wall is some sort of magical protection Nausics watches
over, or possibly even controls. If PCs want to see the
Primal Well from where they now stand, this barrier
needs to come down. And Nausics won’t allow it yet.
“Thank you for accepting my invitation. On behalf of my
forefathers, please, sit and listen for just a breath. I have to
confess,” Nausics says.
If there’s more than one PC in the keep with Nausics,
one is invited to split off and peruse the study. Nausics
says, “I suppose you should take in some of our culture.
An imagination carries more stories than any satchel. But
they are… technically my belongings. So please only touch
the books.”
PCs who enter alone or choose to sit with Nausics
are served a hearty, home-cooked meal made in the
roaring hearth by the dining table. As he serves it, he
remarks he was making a meal too large to eat alone
when Feathershawl’s disruption occurred. He explains
that he knew the collision would happen, and he finds
Feathershawl’s pushiness to salvage the artifact a grave
insult to generations of Innean elves.
Nausics carefully puts out the fire, notes that the collision
is imminent, and encourages PCs to brace themselves.
“Don’t worry,” he says, “I’ve studied this inevitability for
years. I’m certain you have at least an hour to get
off this island, and I only need a few more minutes of
your time.”
24
The Collision
When the collision occurs—and you want to time it just
so—let it happen as players have felt some of the tension
of the Nausics conversation. Then, after the force of
impact is complete and there is only a deep and ominous
rumbling as the city begins its slow deterioration, tell
players that no stew has spilled, and Nausics has with
great skill served himself the last bowl. No matter the
timing, the last thing he says before the collision is...
You and your companions are truly saviors to me, for I have
taken an oath to never touch the Well. I would crumble
to dust if these foolish fingers made contact with it. But
one of you lot, wearing a chestplate of magical armor I
commissioned and have gone to great lengths to test, can
safely deliver the Primal Well from Innean. And trust me,
you need the chestplate.
Before PCs in the secret lair have time to communicate
with PCs in the dining room, the scene abruptly
transitions to Sky Defies Moon (page 27).
TEST: Find something in the study
(Easy )
• Suggested traits: Intellect
A failure simply gets PCs called back into the
den. A success reveals a strange gargoyle clinging
to the ceiling; tugging on the tongue that wags from
its maw causes a bookcase to slide aside.
Hidden behind the book case is a torchlit set
of stairs. There’s just enough time to quietly
descend into a secret lair that Nausics didn’t intend
anyone—let alone these interlopers—to discover.
Inside there are various mummified Skywing
elves, all warped by some sort of Sky or Earth magic.
Their faces are frozen in horror, the rest of their
bodies twisted like swirls of fiberglass and sparkling
marble. They seem trapped in this stasis, frozen
and not quite dead. And thankfully in such a magical
solid state, they might very well survive a plunge
down the mountainside when this city collapses,
though only the heavens know how to cure them.
25
Congratulations, Narrator! With each scene this story is
more and more in YOUR hands. There’s only so much
guidance we can provide from here on out, but here’s a
framework for your upcoming improvisations. Your own
adventure as a Narrator may feel harrowing, but you’ve
already helped weave a story that includes a floating island
colliding with a mountain. That’s a lot. So, don’t worry,
you’ve got this!
Make sure you congratulate players who prepared
thoroughly for the collision. While the city is now
crumbling slowly, you can explain that it would be
absolute chaos without the PCs. Unbeknownst to them
there’s some monsters up ahead, so any unity amongst the
townsfolk is about to become quite valuable.
ACT TWO – AFTER THE COLLISION
You may increasingly feel like you want to allow for
player ingenuity not covered here, and that’s fine! Make
sure you’ve read all the way through to the end and look
at some of the additional scenes (page 32) we offer, so
you can see how things might deviate from the simplest
narrative threads.
From this point on, everyone’s either headed to the Well’s
keep getting ready for a showdown, or they’re clearing the
way for townspeople to evacuate, so all the PCs should
be tied up with some kind of conflict that way. But soon
they’re all reunited in the same goal—escape. Innean isn’t
the quaint floating getaway it was just a few minutes ago.
26
ACT TWO: AFTER THE COLLISION
ACTION SCENE –
MOON STEALS EARTH
AND SKY
Were any of the PCs with Feathershawl during the collision?
Players open with a Challenging test (⑧⑧) to extricate
their PCs from the fallen debris before the action begins
to break from bad to even worse. Those who quickly free
themselves hear Feathershawl note with unusual calm—
and perhaps callous disregard for the others affected—
that this is actually better because with a half-wrecked
library and damaged foundation, the magic flows better
and bricks peel away easier. 
However, Nausics isn’t far from the chamber on the other
side, and there are traps!
Bricks that are removed from the foundation of the keep
spring to life and attempt to float towards characters. If
the maw stones make contact, their tiny saw-like teeth
gnaw at PCs until they can be pried off in a test.
The tiles on the floor of the Primal Well’s chamber
contain ancient Moon magic and touching or stepping
on one activates a limb splicer trap that creates the
illusion that the appropriate limb has swapped places
with another limb on that person’s body. It takes a certain
amount of lifting/jumping up and re-initiating contact
for the limbs to appear back in the right places. Here’s
suggestions on dice for a PC’s pool.
TEST: Break free of the maw stones
(Easy )
• Suggested trait: Strength
On a success, the PC brushes off the stones
and moves to the next test so fast that they’re a
step ahead of arguing catalysts. A failure means a
PC takes Afraid stress and risks not getting to the
Primal Well before a desperate Feathershawl or a
protective Nausics.
TEST: Grab the Primal Well with
your parts in the right places
(Challenging + Limb Splicer )
• Agility: Limit contact with tiles in general
• Intellect: Track which tiles swap what
limbs where
• Mastery: See through the illusion used in
this trap
With a failure the limbs appear to be randomly
shuffled on that person’s body. As an illusion, the
process is bloodless and painless but it’s meant
to delay intruders until Nausics the Keeper can
respond to the alarm.
The process should make for an intense scene that only
makes Feathershawl hungrier for the Primal Well, which
floats at the center of the room. Should they reach it,
transition to Feathers Fly (page 29).
ACTION SCENE –
SKY DEFIES MOON
Were any PCs in Nausics’ keep during the collision?
Dinner, in a sense, is spoiled. Here Nausics may hear
one, possibly two alarms ring from his necklace. A chime
emanating from a stone in his necklace alerts him that
Feathershawl is in his basement (possibly with some
fellow PC companions, who are just Feathershawl’s
hired goons as far as Nausics is concerned). There’s a
second chime alert should another character have made
it to his secret lair full of frozen townspeople. Nausics
starts calling on his own magical defenses—Sky magic
channeled through his necklace—but he is humbled
and looking for allies. He won’t pick a fight unless PCs
want one.
Nausics trusts that his basement traps sufficiently delay
anyone a few minutes and first tries to convince the
nearest PC of his intentions.
27
ACT TWO: AFTER THE COLLISION
TEST: Winged armor grapples
you and tries to dispatch you
(Challenging  + Winged Armor )
• Strength: Fight the armor
• Agility: Dodge the armor
• Mastery: Outwit the foolish magic animating
the armor
Their magic-empowered metal wings (belonging
to Skywing elves of long ago) means that their goal
(in a failed test) is to drag their target out the front
door, up into the open winds, and attempt to fly
them off the island to be dropped to their doom.
If the “lair alarm” is sounded, he tells the PC to follow
him to the lair and attempts a group confession. (NOTE:
Facing his demons in the lair steps up Nausics’ Truth,
but steps down his Liberty.)
If any trust is earned, Nausics lifts his Cuirass of
Vuxen from a display mannequin. This armor was
developed by Vuxen, the local arcane blacksmith, and
Nausics presents it to the PCs in the room if they aren’t
trying to punish him. The armor allows the Sky and Earth
magic coursing through the Primal Well to be pushed
away from the one who touches it. Nausics couldn’t test
this armor himself because of his oath. So, he lured some
townspeople into his keep over the last decade to have
them try different iterations of this cuirass. Dozens of
innocent people have been put into a kind of magical
coma as a result. The armor works now… probably.
He tells you he’s worked extensively with Vuxen to
have this cuirass fine tuned, and Vuxen himself briefly
demonstrated its effectiveness before realizing its dark
history and refusing to collaborate with Nausics any
further. Nausics would like a PC to be the final guinea
pig, if they’ll trust him, and he’ll plead if necessary.
He’s honest and forthcoming about his dark decisions
because he sees it as a part of the journey that must be
confessed, in almost a religious way that one
might expect from a shaman-like Keeper here
in this culture.
But is anyone listening to a confession so
disturbing, let alone indulging it? That’s up
to your players. But if no one volunteers,
he brusquely places the armor on the most
valiant-seeming character nearby and rushes
them towards the basement.
Nausics is also willing to defend himself. If
needed, his three suits of Winged Armor
spring to life, grabbing at PCs.
Nausics isn’t too bad with a nearby quarterstaff, either, so
feel free to improvise a hand-to-hand contest with him
here if you like.
Should players survive the encounter, proceed to
Primal Deliverance (page 30).
28
ACT TWO: AFTER THE COLLISION
ACTION SCENE –
ROARS OF FREEDOM
Were any PCs helping with the evacuation during
the collision?
There’s a pretty clear objective for PCs here—they’ve
gone from careful logistical planning to mitigating chaos.
Giant centipedes are attacking the townspeople!
First, have everyone roll an Easy test (⑥⑥) to get out
of the collision rubble in the street. Then, reveal the
segmented, many-legged horrors of the mountain caves
as a challenge.
Remember to read the additional scenes (page 32)
for inspiration on how to keep things lively and
unpredictable, especially if you’re weaving this tale for
the second, third, or fourth time and want to add a bit of
spice to the recipe. For all we know, a now-loyal Beebee
the Pig is wearing the Cuirass of Vuxen and running
across Innean with the Primal Well strapped to its back.
Is that even possible? We guess so! But we’ll let you write
that scene yourself.
Hopefully the centipedes can be dealt with, but
regardless of the outcome, proceed to From Cloud
to Anvil (page 31).
ACTION SCENE –
FEATHERS FLY
Do the PCs attempt to remove the Primal Well with
Feathershawl’s help? 
It’s time to get out of here, and the clock is ticking before
Innean is completely gone. If PCs are still stuck on Innean
proper dealing with the Primal Well, combat is quick and
brutal and fates are sealed swiftly. But Innean isn’t long
for this world, so whatever time PCs have left is best spent
running like the wind! Unfortunately, the Primal Well
doesn’t give a PC floaty-flying powers or anything; it’s just
a hot potato on a crumbling sky platform. PCs could be
tumbling down the mountain soon, or worse! 
For a PC wearing the Cuirass of Vuxen, that
asset makes it as easy as plucking up the Primal Well
and running.
Characters not wearing Nausics’ special armor are in
for a nasty surprise, and that includes Feathershawl
themself. Anyone who touches the Well without the
Cuirass of Vuxen must survive a difficult challenge,
or else face a creeping, magical stiffening stress to their
hand(s), one that ends in becoming a mummy of marble
and fiberglass if they don’t give up on touching it. Tell
them it’s alarming, their hands becoming jet black, and
as the challenge progresses, they should see the ominous
consequence coming. Here’s some suggestions for how
they can attempt to survive with their die pool.
CHALLENGE: Monstrous Centipedes
(Hard, Medium )
A collision with the mountains causes these
creatures to be disturbed from their subterranean
life, and they attempt to chase and devour PCs and
townspeople alike.
You’d be wise to scale the number of giant
centipedes to match the number of PCs outside—
one fewer ⑩ if there’s fewer than 4 PCs, but one
more ⑩ if there’s more than 4—but either way it’s
a dangerous scene. As the centipedes thunder into
the city, townspeople rush towards the cave and
seek cover, but they’re prone to wailing and drawing
attention to themselves, making them excellent
sources of hostage-level peril.
Depending on how the PCs have prepared, this
challenge can be resolved in many clever ways.
• They can choose to confront the centipedes
directly (they must either be vanquished,
subdued, or chucked off the edge of the floating
city, where there is a six-foot-high stone wall to
hoist them over).
• They can usher townspeople over the bridge
and into the mountain paths or the cave
using Devotion.
• They can evacuate themselves and other
townsfolk from Innean in their new hang gliders
using Agility.
29
ACT TWO: AFTER THE COLLISION
If the catalysts see each other here, they immediately
lock in combat, and if PCs don’t intervene, they try to
incapacitate each other with Moon magic and Winged
Armor, respectively.
There’s just enough time to pull the Well out of the socket
it hovers in, make a mad dash for the bridge (or crumbling
collision-point of city and mountain), and hope the
PCs land in a safe spot without too many centipedes or
longneck hillwolves occupying it. That’s right, longneck
hillwolves—there’s seriously a lot going on out there.
Hopefully at least one of the PCs was helping evacuate,
because if everyone went with Feathershawl there’s a
whole lot of conflict—by way of Nausics and monsters—
in the PCs’ path now. If PCs locked in a contest with
Nausics lose, they’re doomed to, at worst, be stuck in the
keep as it crumbles, or at best flee only to vainly reach out
towards the survivors who are safe.
The good news about aligning with Feathershawl is that,
unlike Nausics, they’ve never deliberately caused harm
before, making them surprisingly redeemable. They thank
the PCs (if they make it off Innean in mostly one piece
with the Primal Well) and share more about the time
when they were underprepared for the plague of worms
that decimated the Moonshadow food supplies. Hoping
to bring back something that could float acres of crops,
they express—even to Nausics if he’s nearby—that there’s
a plan in place that makes good use of the Primal Well. It’s
just that Feathershawl is often too headstrong to stop and
explain things to others before it’s too late, a bad habit
from when they were still a privileged elder. They reveal a
small crystal, hidden in their cloak, which shimmers with
the images of dozens of different Moonshadow elves as
it’s turned in their hand. “These are images of my family,”
Feathershawl says quietly, “and thanks to you, I may see
more than this illusion of them soon.”
But if nobody cleaned up the monsters, they’re in for one
more test or contest with them, and if PCs fail, they may
go down the mountainside with a crumbling Innean or
have to sacrifice the Well.
Feathershawl listens to characters rage and vent and
they offer apologies. This is more than the PCs get from
Nausics, who now faces his dark choices in the aftermath
and feels little of anything anymore—unless Nausics was
bested by an unforgiving character and didn’t make it
out alive.
Time to proceed to the Aftermath (page 34).
ACTION SCENE –
PRIMAL DELIVERANCE
Do the PCs attempt to remove the Primal Well with the
help of Nausics and his Cuirass of Vuxen? 
He’s quite keen on helping, but only if PCs sit and listen
to his confession before he surrenders the Cuirass of
Vuxen. If PCs listened and have it, the good news is he
keeps Feathershawl preoccupied with his Winged Armor
and quarterstaff, and he shares that the armor makes PCs
immune to his traps, so they should be able to run down
the stone steps, grab the Primal Well, and run! Hopefully
another PC is with the second group and vouches for the
PCs to Feathershawl if necessary. Otherwise it’s a contest
against Feathershawl.
Unfortunately, Nausics emboldened by having a PC as
an ally is more likely to try and incapacitate Feathershawl
as well, so intervention is necessary if PCs wish to keep
everyone safe; having had a second PC at the dinner
makes such an intervention much easier. One to snatch
and run, one to mediate. But who knows, maybe PCs will
leave them at each other’s throats, morally grey as they
both seem.
CHALLENGE: Survive grabbing the Primal
Well with your bare hands!
(Very Hard )
It’s for one player, but it’s incredibly difficult.
• Strength: Brace your body
• Spirit: Steel your soul
• Mastery: Run your history with magical
processes through your mind as you fight
back against the magic
• Devotion: Think of the Moonshadow people
who will benefit from this artifact one day
30
ACT TWO: AFTER THE COLLISION
If PCs manage to scramble the Primal Well away
and have Nausics at their side, he pledges a life of
service and accountability, offering to let PCs take
him to the authorities of their choice. He won’t
apologize for trying to take out Feathershawl,
though. If the catalysts are somehow left on
a mountain path or in a cave together, they
certainly aren’t making a lot of eye contact right
now.
When you’ve seen who lived to be a part of the
tale-telling, proceed to the Aftermath (page 34).
ACTION SCENE – FROM
CLOUD TO ANVIL
Are any PCs outside in the streets helping to
evacuate the citizens of Innean? 
Congratulations, because this pivotal thread required
some serious selflessness, and success in Roars of Freedom
(page 29) means PCs could have hang gliders waiting
for their friends, a large bridge assisting the escape, and
maybe even fewer monsters. Accomplishing any one of
these three goals means every citizen could make it out
alive, if things still go well here.
Manage the chaos, and ideally meet up with PCs who
made a go for the Primal Well, and PCs just might survive
with all the townspeople and only lose the respect of a
catalyst or two. Proceed to the Aftermath (page 34).
Longneck Hillwolves
Another danger adds itself to the centipede chaos—
longneck hillwolves run along the narrow mountain
path that Innean now leans against. Their painful bite is
just annoying for elves and humans, but they’re eager to
eat the pigs and chickens and they cause anarchy in an
already complicated evacuation.
If the PCs don’t distract the creatures or combat them
mightily, panic bests everyone and a few elves (or
chickens) might not get out before the landmass crumbles
completely, their silhouettes disappearing in a massive
cloud of dust.
Longneck Hillwolves
A breed of creatures that look like carnivorous,
fanged alpaca roams the mountains. After the
collision they impede mountain trails and even run
onto Innean streets. Though mostly uninterested
in humanoids, they hungrily chase the chickens and
pigs of Innean and are happy to bite at the terrified
people as they either try to escape with livestock
in tow or generally shriek at the sight of the beasts.
Not as aggressive as the creatures of the caves, they
can be tamed, but they’re dangerous nonetheless.
CHALLENGE: Hide or dodge
from the longneck hillwolves
(Easy, Medium )
• Suggested traits: Agility or Influence
PCs who fared well in Roars of Freedom (page 29)
can use other townspeople (page 20) as assets
in this scene, making it easier for their companions
to emerge from the Well’s keep and make it to
relative safety.
31
ADDITIONAL SCENES
Noko wished to be the next Keeper, but he’s
clearly lost his chance by the time the PCs arrive.
He’s eager to discuss magic, and PCs might notice
the robed figure and trust his youthful energy more
than Nausics’. Though not intended to be a catalyst,
a crafty Narrator could spin the tension between
Noko and Nausics into a new thread about Noko’s
sincerity and humble values de-escalating the pride
of one of the two original catalysts.
NOKO
Sky Magic ④ Useful Lore ⑧
In The Way ⑧
needed to escape with the Primal Well. Vuxen recently
learned of Nausics’ dark scheme; he could be useful in a
scene involving atonement or guilt-driven heroics.
SUCCESSION
Noko is the aspiring apprentice to Nausics—except that
Nausics doesn’t want an apprentice. Noko has no real
aptitude for magic but he’s obsessive about lore. He’s
spent a great deal of time in the museum above the Primal
Well but has been (ruefully) denied entry to the relics in
Nausics’ home. He would love to help the PCs with the
Primal Well, regardless of which catalyst they choose.
We found these scenes didn’t fit the most linear way to tell
the story and it’s possible you won’t use them either. But
by reading them you might discover some surprise twists
to throw into your tale and fire up your imagination’s
furnace for a scene not included elsewhere. If you’re just
playtesting a few scenes, consider this section a reminder
that forking off into a completely improvised location and
scenario can be a lot of fun.
WELDED FATE
Vuxen, the arcane blacksmith, fashioned quite a powerful
artifact in the Cuirass of Vuxen. There isn’t time
for him to make a second cuirass, so the original is still
Vuxen made armor for Nausics and can be
persuaded to spill the tea, especially if the PCs
haven’t learned about the Cuirass of Vuxen from
Nausics yet. Perhaps a curious PC asking about
weapons in Act One spots his burned smock
in a crowd. Vuxen might have another forged
experiment available or another item or two in
stock that PCs could use as an asset.
VUXEN
Brilliant Blacksmith ⑧ Primal Lore ⑧
Trustworthy ⑧
ADDITIONAL SCENES
32
LOYAL SWARM
If chickens (page 12) and pigs (page 14) are so friendly
here, perhaps an army of them could be bootcamp trained
in an hour by a PC who loves animals. Who knows?
They might even be able to form an asset against a giant
centipede if the dice rolls came out right.
DESCENT OF THE COWARD
PCs might not only hang glide to Xadia below, but
selfishly bail and find themselves a relative nonparticipant in the great evacuation. The adventure doesn’t
end when they choose a hang-gliding escape. If a selfish
townsperson joined them, be sure to tell the PC about
how relieved (or not relieved) they are in a conversation
on the way down. If a PC sadly loses the fight above and
tumbles to their doom (hopefully no one is that reckless),
consider mixing this with the Purgatory Plummet scene.
PURGATORY PLUMMET
If someone falls off Innean—through combat, as a frozen
statue of magic, or other bad skydiving premise—you
should break it to them: things look grim. And if you
think your players might enjoy a bit of gallows humor,
you can try it with a smile, like this...
Sorry to see you go, but sometimes exploring a giant
floating rock up near outer space can lead to some seriously
bad consequences.
You’re falling fast now. Faster. Faster. The shattered remains
of a nearby toy shop tumble around you. You note that
instead of teddy bears, there’s only plush pigs and chickens.
But they’re all wearing cute little outfits. You’d sure like
to stay alive so you could collect them. There’s a pig in a
detective costume, a chicken in a lawyer costume. So creative!
You keep falling. Boy, mountains sure are high up.
Eventually you see what must be the toyshop’s sole plush
badger. Wow, you think, how cool! Innean had stories, or
drawings, of a badger! Then you realize it’s not a badger,
it’s just a pig in a little cat burglar costume. You realize this
right before you collide with the forest below.
For anyone who escaped on a hang glider, as you and your
compatriots reach the end of your hang glide, you hear a
voice cry out above you, “Oh wow, a badger!”
Then your friend rockets past you as you hear them say
“Oh, wait…”
You surmise that their last memory was a disappointing
badger experience.
OTHER SAD OUTCOMES
Escaping Innean is a matter of life and death, but you
aren’t required to subject your players to graphic death
scenes. You can utilize the chaos to mask or imply that
not everything went great, and certain fates are unknown.
Do a headcount after the escape and grimly note that the
number is smaller than hoped. Explain the confusion and
the monsters were just too much to overcome and leave
it at that. There are also plenty of consequences that can
show the intensity of the situation without killing
anyone off.
The Primal Well is the easiest sacrifice. If you don’t want
this rare artifact to disappear forever, have a centipede
snag it with their mouth at the last possible second as a
consequence of a fight-gone-bad, and everyone can watch
the precious artifact rocket upwards, a confused centipede
holding on with its mandibles, and disappearing upwards
into a distant speck.
If a loss seems to suit the story, there’s no need to
describe a hand reaching out and falling away with the
plummeting cobblestone. You can often say even more by
saying nothing at all, having your NCs bow their heads in
sorrow and grief, and let loss speak itself without words. If
a PC’s loss suits the story, that’s fine as long as the player is
driving the narrative of how their character dies heroically.
33
THE AFTERMATH
If characters escape with the Primal Well thanks to the
Cuirass of Vuxen or amazing challenge rolls, they
notice that three colored crystal deposits have formed
on it: blue, red, and violet. They represent primal sources!
PCs can attempt to remove and use them, but if they
touch one, the other two shatter. Try to grab two or
all three at once and they all shatter. Sorry, greedy
mages! Blue leaves PCs with a Sky source ⑥, Red
with an Earth source ⑥, and Purple with a
Moon source ⑥ (thanks for glomming that last one
on only a few hours ago with the screw-up, Feathershawl).
PCs who escape without the glory of saving the Primal
Well see it rip itself free of something. Maybe rubble,
maybe the sad hands of Feathershawl or a PC who
grabbed it too late, or perhaps the hands of Nausics as he
turns to ash. The Primal Well rockets up into the sky now
that the island isn’t there to lock it into a fixed altitude.
Regardless of the Well, each active Narrator character
should thank the companions for whatever good they did
with the time they had.
Now, perhaps they face a long trek down a mountain
path. PCs could be exploring a winding cave hoping to
find an opening in the foothills. They could be floating
gently with their hang gliders and meeting some confused
Moonshadow elves below.
Thus ends your Lost Oasis tale, and the quest for the
Primal Well.
WHAT’S NEXT
Players may find their character now has a vendetta, a
death wish, or new trajectory for their artifact-hunting
career. Pay attention to what a PC wants, desires, and
excels at and you might very well find the springboard for
your next adventure! There’s plenty of tales you can weave
for yourself now, from helping Feathershawl walk the
Primal Well back to their people through a mountain pass
guarded by humans, to finding Nausics a therapist while
he’s in Skywing prison.
FANDOM
Writing & Rules Design: Cam Banks (Rules Primer) & Dan Telfer (Lost Oasis)
Editing: Amanda Valentine
Graphic Design & Layout: Tina Lam Collier
Narrative Lead: Dan Telfer
Creative Director: Cam Banks
VP of Tabletop Gaming: Adam Bradford
WONDERSTORM
Creators: Aaron Ehasz & Justin Richmond
Managing Producer: Joe LeFavi | Genuine Entertainment
Tales of Xadia: The Dragon Prince Roleplaying Game is published by Fandom Inc.
Tales of Xadia: The Dragon Prince Roleplaying Game uses the Cortex system. The
Cortex system and the Fandom logos are © 2021 Fandom Inc. All rights reserved.
Reference to other copyrighted material in no way constitutes a challenge to the
respective copyright holders of that material.
The Dragon Prince and all associated characters and elements are © 2021
Wonderstorm, Inc. and used under license by Fandom Inc. All rights reserved.
Artwork and graphics © and ™ Wonderstorm, Inc. All rights reserved.
Credits
Strength
Spirit
Intellect
Influence
Awareness
Agility
STRESS
Afraid
Angry
Insecure
Corrupted
Exhausted
Injured
ASSET
Durenian Spear ⑧
A long, tri-pointed spear
common among Durenian
soldiers.
Spearfighting ⑧
Agriculture ⑥
SPECIALTIES
ATTRIBUTES
Durenian Freefolk ⑧
ɬ Hinder: Gain one Ⓟ● when you switch out this distinction’s
die rating for a ④.
Soldier of the Garden ⑧
ɬ Hinder: Gain one Ⓟ● when you switch out this distinction’s
die rating for a ④.
ɬ Graceful Warrior: Spend a Ⓟ● to add both your
Agility and Strength dice to your dice pool in a test,
contest, or challenge that deals with battle, instead of
just one attribute.
Never Back Down ⑧
ɬ Hinder: Gain one Ⓟ● when you switch out this distinction’s
die rating for a ④.
ɬ Resolute: Spend a Ⓟ● to add one of your stress dice to
a test, contest, or challenge. Step down that stress die
afterwards.
VALUES DISTINCTIONS
Liberty ④
Society is too important for me
to put myself above it.
Mastery ⑥
I won’t make a fool of myself
fixing what isn’t broken.
Truth ⑥
My actions speak louder than
empty promises.
Devotion ⑩
I find passion and heart in
everything, even battle.
Glory ⑧
Although fighting is often
unpleasant, my legacy
demands it.
Justice ⑧
When honor calls, I do
not waver.
DIYAN
As headstrong as he is kind, Diyan fought alongside Vinaya in Queen
Aanya’s army wielding a thick skull and a Durenian spear. But his soul
was sprinkled with wanderlust, and he hopes to indulge it in an era of
peace. If human hostilities ever ebb, he hopes to travel with Vinaya to
visit Katolis, like their Duren ancestors did.
Agility
Awareness
Influence
Intellect
Spirit
Strength
STRESS
Afraid
Angry
Insecure
Corrupted
Exhausted
Injured
ASSET
Chronicles of Elarion ⑧
A bound collection of stories, tales,
and poems from the ancient days of
the Human Kingdoms.
History ⑥
Politics ⑥
Diplomacy ⑥
SPECIALTIES
ATTRIBUTES
Durenian Noble ⑧
ɬ Hinder: Gain one Ⓟ when you switch out this distinction’s
die rating for a ④.
Herald of the Queen ⑧
ɬ Hinder: Gain one Ⓟ when you switch out this distinction’s
die rating for a ④.
ɬ Orate: Spend a Ⓟ to double your Influence or Spirit
die on a test, contest, or challenge that involves using your
speaking voice.
You Don’t Have to Remind me! ⑧
ɬ Hinder: Gain one Ⓟ when you switch out this distinction’s
die rating for a ④.
ɬ Instant Recall: Spend a Ⓟ to remember a helpful fact or
detail from something you once read, giving yourself or an
ally an asset for a single test, contest, or challenge.
VALUES DISTINCTIONS
Liberty ⑥
The real fight is work, not
tussling in the streets.
Mastery ⑧
Through determination
I will outsmart them all.
Truth ⑩
You can find a liar by the scent
of their lies.
Devotion ④
I have my friends, but who
needs everyone else?
Glory ⑥
War is for the weak. I’d
rather surgically analyze the
problem.
Justice ⑧
I may be bitter, but it’s
because I so clearly see
right from wrong.
VINAYA
Vinaya recently felt her icy noble veneer crack when she and her
best friend Diyan met Winda the hunter, who shared her skepticism
of manipulative personalities. Vinaya’s specialty is seeing through
centuries-old grudges that her elders lean on like crutches, and her
friends try to convince her to use that power for more generous
reasons than she may normally be inclined.
STRESS
Afraid
Angry
Insecure
Corrupted
Exhausted
Injured
Agility
Awareness
Influence
Intellect
Spirit
Strength
STRESS
Afraid
Angry
Insecure
Corrupted
Exhausted
Injured
ATTRIBUTES
Del Barian Hinterlander ⑧
ɬ Hinder: Gain one Ⓟ when you switch out this distinction’s
die rating for a ④.
ɬ Tough: Spend a Ⓟ to convert your Injured or
Exhausted stress into another kind of stress. If you
already had stress of that new type, step up that stress.
Trailblazing Hunter ⑧
ɬ Hinder: Gain one Ⓟ when you switch out this distinction’s
die rating for a ④.
ɬ Keen Eye: Spend a Ⓟ to double your Awareness or
Agility die in your dice pool when following a trail, aiming
at a distant target, or spotting something far off.
Foolhardy Friend ⑧
ɬ Hinder: Gain one Ⓟ when you switch out this distinction’s
die rating for a ④.
VALUES DISTINCTIONS
Liberty ⑩
You couldn’t drag me to a fancy
meal kicking and screaming.
Mastery ⑧
My survival skills are incredibly
important to hone.
Truth ④
I’d rather serve you snark than
what I’m really feeling.
Devotion ⑧
I may snark, but I’m loyal to
a tee.
Glory ⑥
I’d rather wander alone than
upset the balance.
Justice ⑥
I don’t run from wrongdoing,
but I don’t run to it either.
WINDA
After the death of King Florian, Winda grew dispassionate about her
homeland and decided to explore the wilderness. There she discovered
her new friends Diyan and Vinaya of Duren. Though gruff and sarcastic
by nature, she has grown curious about the greater possibilities for
Xadia and whether her actions could actually play a role in
its unification.
ASSET
Light Crossbow ⑧
A finely-crafted crossbow
with a case of quarrels.
Tracking ⑧
Climbing ⑥
SPECIALTIES
STRESS
Afraid
Angry
Insecure
Corrupted
Exhausted
Injured
Strength
Spirit
Intellect
Influence
Awareness
Agility
STRESS
Afraid
Angry
Insecure
Corrupted
Exhausted
Injured
ATTRIBUTES
Moonshadow Elf ⑧
ɬ Hinder: Gain one Ⓟ when you switch out this distinction’s
die rating for a ④.
ɬ Elf Grace: Spend a Ⓟ to step up your Agility die in your
dice pool for a test, contest, or challenge that factors in
your elven speed and balance.
ɬ Moonshadow Form: When trying to hide, sneak, or go
unseen during a full moon, spend a Ⓟ to double your
Moonshadow Elf distinction die in your dice pool and
keep an extra die in your total.
Homesick Assassin ⑧
ɬ Hinder: Gain one Ⓟ when you switch out this distinction’s
die rating for a ④.
A Song for All Occasions ⑧
ɬ Hinder: Gain one Ⓟ when you switch out this distinction’s
die rating for a ④.
VALUES DISTINCTIONS
Liberty ⑥
I yearn for the security of my old
home.
Mastery ⑩
I rely on my deadly skills during
this trying time.
Truth ④
Facts only matter if they help
get the job done.
Devotion ⑧
I am open to new bonds as I
search for my path.
Glory ⑧
I’ve traveled far and hope it
was for a purpose.
Justice ⑥
I have yet to find true balance
in this world.
ELJAAL
Eljaal travelled a great distance to Del Bar to assassinate a human target
some months ago. Before they could complete the task, their target
fell to his death in a climbing accident in clear view of Eljaal. They have
since been wandering the human lands, trying to come to grips with
the future ahead, knowing that the elves they love might not accept
their circumstantial failure. Eljaal hopes to find a new purpose, or a
reassuring path home.
ASSET
Elven Sword-Staff ⑧
This staff has blades on either end
which can rotate outwards when
in use.
Sneaking ⑧
Swordplay ⑥
SPECIALTIES
STRESS
Afraid
Angry
Insecure
Corrupted
Exhausted
Injured
Agility
Awareness
Influence
Intellect
Spirit
Strength
STRESS
Afraid
Angry
Insecure
Corrupted
Exhausted
Injured
ATTRIBUTES
Sunfire Elf ⑧
ɬ Hinder: Gain one Ⓟ when you switch out this distinction’s
die rating for a ④.
ɬ Heat-Being: Add ⑧ Angry stress in order to step up both
your Agility and Strength for the duration of any test,
contest, or challenge.
Knight of Lux Aurea ⑧
ɬ Hinder: Gain one Ⓟ when you switch out this distinction’s
die rating for a ④.
ɬ Stalwart: Spend a Ⓟ to step down all of your stress dice
after you succeed at a contest with a foe.
Fickle Luck ⑧
ɬ Hinder: Gain one Ⓟ when you switch out this distinction’s
die rating for a ④.
VALUES DISTINCTIONS
Liberty ⑥
I am a servant, not a conqueror.
Mastery ⑧
My sword is as hot as my temper,
and it will not slip my grasp.
Truth ⑥
Fools need smiting more than
they need saving.
Devotion ⑧
I love my people as much as a
warrior can.
Glory ④
If my name does not go down
in the history books, so be it.
Justice ⑩
My great might represents
defense, not destruction.
BINETA
Sister of the mage Babukar, Bineta considers herself not only a knight,
but the very dagger in the hand of Lux Aurea itself. Bold and unafraid,
she has a knack for carving through the densest battlefield, though she
will likely pick up some careless scars along the way.
ASSET
Sunforge Blade ⑧
This blade glows with heat.
Thankfully it comes with a
magical protective sheath.
Swordplay ⑥
Animal Training ⑥
Strategy ⑥
SPECIALTIES
STRESS
Afraid
Angry
Insecure
Corrupted
Exhausted
Injured
Agility
Awareness
Influence
Intellect
Spirit
Strength
STRESS
Afraid
Angry
Insecure
Corrupted
Exhausted
Injured
ATTRIBUTES
Sunfire Elf ⑧
ɬ Hinder: Gain one Ⓟ when you switch out this distinction’s
die rating for a ④.
ɬ Heat-Being: Add ⑧ Angry stress in order to step up both
your Agility and Strength for the duration of any test,
contest, or challenge.
Hotheaded Sun Mage ⑧
ɬ Hinder: Gain one Ⓟ when you switch out this distinction’s
die rating for a ④.
Simplicity is the Best Solution ⑧
ɬ Hinder: Gain one Ⓟ when you switch out this distinction’s
die rating for a ④.
ɬ Straight to the Point: Spend a Ⓟ and either gain a ⑧
asset or step up an existing asset when undertaking a
challenge because of your keen insight.
VALUES DISTINCTIONS
Liberty ④
I sometimes get lost in my work
and forget myself.
Mastery ⑥
My talent is innate, not
something I must polish.
Truth ⑧
I have seen so many truths that I
hardly know my own.
Devotion ⑥
Privately I am preoccupied
with my greater purpose.
Glory ⑩
I live to see the day when I
may overcome a worthy foe.
Justice ⑧
I relish my duties, they are
never a burden.
BABUKAR
Brother of the warrior Bineta, Babukar takes quiet pride in his ability
to strike fear in his enemies alongside her in battle through his
performance of magic. He also serves as a secret weapon behind the
scenes, for though he is something of a battle mage, he is also a master
interrogator and has cracked the minds of foes as well as their skin.
ASSETS
Sun Magic Spells ⑧
ɬ Fulmen Ignem (Bolt of Fire)
ɬ Circulus Luminis (Ring of Light)
ɬ Verum Animo (Sense Truth
of the Heart)
Sun Magic ⑧
Crafting ⑥
SPECIALTIES
STRESS
Afraid
Angry
Insecure
Corrupted
Exhausted
Injured