Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.
Elfhunt by Jussi R. Foltmar Svendsen 1
Elfhunt
A D&D 5E jungle adventure
In the Jungles of Chult lies Camp Highmore, a trading place in the heart of the wilderness. Here the
fittest rule, but an elf has recently tipped the scale of power by stealing secret military information.
A group of adventurers are hired to track her down and bring her back to Camp Highmore.
A 14-28 hour adventure for 5th level characters

by JUSSI R. FOLTMAR SVENDSEN
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, D&D, Wizards of the Coast, Forgotten Realms, the dragon ampersand, Player’s Handbook, Monster Manual, Dungeon Master’s Guide, D&D Adventurers League, all other
Wizards of the Coast product names, and their respective logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast in the USA and other countries. All characters and their distinctive likenesses are property of Wizards
of the Coast. This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the
express written permission of Wizards of the Coast.
©2016 Wizards of the Coast LLC, PO Box 707, Renton, WA 98057-0707, USA. Manufactured by Hasbro SA, Rue Emile-Boéchat 31, 2800 Delémont, CH. Represented by Hasbro Europe, 4 The Square,
Stockley Park, Uxbridge, Middlesex, UB11 1ET, UK. 
Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.
Elfhunt by Jussi R. Foltmar Svendsen 2
Introduction
Elfhunt is an adventure set in the Jungles of Chult in
the Forgotten Realms. It is a standalone adventure
for 5th level characters. The ideal party size is five
characters. If your group is larger or smaller, you can
easily adjust the adventures difficulty by increasing
or decreasing the number of enemies present in a
given encounter.
Elfhunt is centered around the search and capture
of an elven woman who has stolen secret military
information from a group of humans in the Jungles
of Chult. The adventure has a main story, which
covers the search and capture of the elf, and a side
story, which covers all the additional information
and events the players can gather and experience
within Camp Highmore.
Character Advancement. This adventure was
created without the use of experience points. Instead
the milestone experience rule has been used, which
means that once this adventure is concluded, the
players should gain a level. Feel free to use standard
experience points at your own discretion.
Background
Camp Highmore is a human trading hub hidden in
the Jungles of Chult. It is run by High Chief Highmore
who has chiefs from other nearby tribes to handle
other aspects of Camp Highmore. This includes Chief
Filip who handles the guards and soldiers of Camp
Highmore, and Chief Shandra who handles the more
delicate aspects of the camp that requires a female
touch.
 Chief Filip has his hands full with the current
outbreak of chaotic and insane rogues that plague
the camp, led by a man called Tane Here. Meanwhile,
Chief Shandra has her hands full with an old man
called Johan Petry, who is completely infatuated
with the beautiful young woman.
 Unknown to most, Chief Filip and Chief Shandra
are married. They are plotting against High Chief
Highmore to gain power over Camp Highmore and
all trade in the region. Tane Here and Johan Petry
have both learned of this plot. Tane keeps a low
profile while Johan is trying to get on Shandra’s good
side without invoking Filip’s jealousy. Johan is an
elderly man who hopes that if he assists in the
scheming against High Chief Highmore, then he can
have a wealthier retirement, possibly at Chief
Shandra’s side.
 Everything was going as planned, until the elf Imis
Elvan learned about Filip and Shandra’s marriage
and their plot to overthrow High Chief Highmore.
Chief Filip had the guards arrest the elf, but Imis
escaped Camp Highmore with proof. As a retired
adventurer, Johan Petry knows many other
adventurers and possibly the players as well, if not
personally then by name or reputation. Chief
Shandra has therefore contacted Johan and asked
him to hire a group of adventurers to hunt down the
elf Imis Elvan and bring her back to Camp Highmore
under the pretense that she stole important military
information.
Overview
The first act covers the introduction of the PCs, of
three main NPCs and of the quest itself. The players
will meet Johan Petry who gives them the quest to
hunt down Imis Elvan. They can then either go
directly out into the jungle to hunt down the elf,
turning the adventure into a three act game, or they
can seek out additional information in Camp
Highmore, introducing the second and third
characters: Chief Filip, Chief Shandra, or Tane Here,
depending on where the players seek out additional
information.
 Act 2 begins after the introduction of Chief Filip.
After the players have investigated the scene of the
crime where Imis Elvan allegedly stole the military
information, Chief Filip will meet with Johan Petry.
Chief Filip is worried that the players may uncover
their scheme against High Chief Highmore and with
the help of Johan Petry, he frames the players and
arrests them. During the trial, however, Tane Here
and his gang of rogues rescue the players, mainly
due to their chaotic nature.
 Act 3 begins after the players meet Tane Here for
the first time. They learn a lot about the political
intrigues in Camp Highmore and Tane suggests that
the players seek out the elf Imis Elvan to gather the
proof that she has against Chief Filip and Chief
Shandra. Unfortunately, Chief Filip has already
framed the players, whether they have been arrested
or not, and thus they will have to sneak their way
out of Camp Highmore.
 Act 4 covers the players hunt for Imis Elvan, which
takes them on a journey through the Jungles of Chult
and into the Feywild, where they encounter a
mysterious labyrinth defended by minotaurs.
 Act 5 takes place in the heart of the labyrinth
where the players meet the elf Imis Elvan. This may
escalate into a final conflict to capture her and bring
her back to Camp Highmore, or to a deal that brings
the players back to Camp Highmore with proof
against Chief Filip, who won’t go down without a
fight.
 The adventure concludes with two possible
endings depending on the information the players
have gathered and their choices throughout the
adventure.
Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.
Elfhunt by Jussi R. Foltmar Svendsen 3
Act 1: Prologue
No details about Camp Highmore has been created on
purpose to let you create your own unique settlement
within the Jungles of Chult. Personally, I ran an
adventure prior to this one where the players got to
know the camp, its inhabitants, surroundings, and
even got to influence its setup and setting. There are
certain things necessary for this specific adventure,
however, which includes Character Hooks, Points of
Interests, and NPCs. The NPCs of note are described
specifically under their own scenes, which also
includes a more in depth description of the Points of
Interests.
Character Hooks
The players are all part of the Tribe of the Black
Phoenix, which have a permanent residence in Camp
Highmore due to their reputable adventurers, which
also include Johan Petry. Johan contacts the players
and hires them to hunt down and capture the elf Imis
Elvan. The meeting with Johan is described in Scene
1: The Beginning.
 A large variety of character hooks can be used for
this adventure so feel free to change the hook to suit
the party.
Points of Interests
Feel free to create your own version of Camp
Highmore, but note that the following points of
interests within the camp should be present.
1. Johan Petry’s House
Whether you’re using the hook described above or
not, Johan Petry needs a place to live. This location is
up to you, but if in doubt, use the description in Act 1
Scene 1: The Beginning.
2. House of Chiefs
A structure where the various chiefs meet with each
other and with various people is also a good idea for
such a large camp as Camp Highmore. This could be
High Chief Highmore’s personal abode or not. The
important aspect of the House of Chiefs is that it is
used both to introduce Chief Shandra and as a stage
for the players’ trial if they are arrested. The House of
Chiefs is described in Act 1 Scene 2: Meeting at the
House of Chiefs.
3. Barracks
Camp Highmore has a relatively large population,
which therefore requires guards and soldiers,
especially since the surrounding jungle is very hostile.
Chief Filip has been given the task to oversee the
guards and soldiers, and it is therefore here that the
players will meet Chief Filip. It is also here that the
players can investigate the scene of the crime, where
the military information has allegedly been stolen
from. More about the barracks is described in Act 1
Scene 3: Investigation at the Barracks.
4. Dungeon
At some point the players may be framed and
arrested. They will be put into a cell in an
underground cave, which serves as the camp’s
dungeon. From here the players may try to escape, or
they may simply wait for their trial at the House of
Chiefs. More about the dungeon is described in Act 2
Scene 2: The Prison.
5. Thieves’ Hideout
Some players may have a criminal background or
means to gather information from criminals in town.
They may even go so far as get rescued by the rogues
in town during their trial. In any case they will be led
to a hidden hideout set in a nearby underground
tunnel system used as a natural sewer. More about
the Thieves’ Hideout is described in Act 3 Scene 1:
Thieves’ Hideout.
6. Palisades and Gate
Picking up the trail of the elf Imis Elvan is very
difficult within the camp, but the players quickly learn
that Imis Elvan escaped outside the camp’s palisades.
Searching for tracks at the gate to the camp will lead
the players into the Jungles of Chult and on to their
elfhunt. The gate is described in Act 4 Scene 1: The
Gate. 
Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only. Elfhunt by Jussi R. Foltmar Svendsen 4
Scene 1: The Beginning
The players are invited to Johan Petry’s House. If
you’re using the character hook as described, then
this house also serves as the residence to any
members of the Tribe of the Black Phoenix, including
the players. The house is a large wooden house with
bedrooms to accommodate half a dozen people, a
kitchen, an armory, training grounds, lounge, even a
toilet connected to the local natural sewer, also
known as underground caves. This scene takes place
in the main hall.
The large single-room hall has walls lined with trophies of
monsters killed, most by Johan Petry. There’s an empty
board on the wall and a quest book on the large oak table in
the middle of the room, which is lit by a combination of
sunlight from the large window across the hall and the large
fireplace that roars and mainly gives light rather than heat.
An elderly man approaches you and introduces himself as
Johan Petry. He has a quest for you.
Johan Petry
Johan Petry (human veteran) is a thin old man with
grey hair and a short grey beard. He was once a
warrior, but his strength has failed him in his old days
(Strength 11). What he lacks in physical strength he
makes up in experience (Wisdom 16), which is
something he gladly shares through stories, if he’s not
asleep and snoring. He no longer
wears his armor (AC 13), but he
usually wields his two swords,
and he stays close to a
crossbow at all times.
Ideal: Greed – Johan wants
wealth and power to have a
better retirement.
Bond: Johan is in love with
Chief Shandra, but he has
never done anything about it
because of the age difference
and because he’s afraid to
invoke Chief Filip’s jealousy.
Flaw: Johan enjoys the
decadent lifestyle and is in
love with
Chief Shandra, which he keeps a secret. He believes he
can have it all if he was wealthier and more powerful.
Intrigue: Johan is tired of being poor and powerless,
and he has therefore agreed to assist Chief Shandra
and Chief Filip in their scheme to wrest power from
High Chief Highmore.
The Quest
Johan Petry hires the players to track down an elf
woman called Imis Elvan who has fled from the camp
into the jungle and bring her back to the custody of
Chief Filip.
 The players should have the opportunity to
question Johan Petry about the quest and its reward.
This can be done through roleplay or through the use
of Intelligence (Investigation) and Wisdom
(Insight) checks.  Imis Elvan is a wood elf illusionist with the
capability to cast Cone of Cold. Her signature spell,
however, is Mirror Image, which she combines with
Misty Step and Magic Missile.  Imis Elvan stole secret military information at the
barracks from Chief Filip, the chief in charge of the
military in Camp Highmore. (False but Johan
doesn’t know that it’s not the truth).  Chief Shandra has asked Johan to hire adventurers
to track down and capture Imis Elvan. The guards
already tried to stop her before she escaped, and
now a group of adventurer would be more reliable
than the military.  Imis Elvan was chased out of town by the guards
who lost her trail at the gates.
The party now has four choices.
1. Go speak with Chief Shandra at the House of Chiefs
about why she has hired adventurers, what
information was stolen, and who this Imis Elvan is.
See Act 1 Scene 2: Meeting at the House of Chiefs
for more information.
2. Go speak with Chief Filip at the barracks to
investigate the scene
of the crime, learn more about Imis Elvan, and
possibly pick up her trail. See Act 1 Scene 3:
Investigation at the Barracks for more information.
3. Gathering information in any other way should
attract the attention of Tane Here and his rogues,
who secretly leads them to the thieves’ hideout. See
Act 3 Scene 1: Thieves’ Hideout for more
information.
4. Go to the gate to pick up Imis Elvan’s trail. See Act 4
Scene 1: The Gate for more information.
Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only. Elfhunt by Jussi R. Foltmar Svendsen 5
Scene 2: Meeting at the House of Chiefs
If the players wish to speak with their real quest
giver, then they need to contact Chief Shandra. They
can usually get an audience with her at the House of
Chiefs during the day.
You walk up the wooden steps and in through the arch that
leads into the large circular wooden fortress reinforced
with skins, hides, and leathers. Inside the House of Chiefs
are two halls that go left and right. Both turned around
along the outer edge of the building and lead into the
central circular chamber. You stand in an empty round
room with a dais a few feet up all around you. Chiefs stand
on the higher level so that they always look down upon
others while the High Chief sits in the large ivory throne
adorned with skins and a roaring fire a few feet behind it.
Here you meet Chief Shandra.
Chief Shandra
Shandra (human noble) is a beautiful young woman
with a lot of political power (Charisma 18). She is the
daughter of a tribal chieftain and married Chief Filip a
few years ago to combine her own tribe with Filip’s
tribe, the Tribe of the Moonweavers. Very few in
Camp Highmore knows about this union. Shandra has
long black hair and piercing blue eyes. She is naïv
(Wisdom 9), which becomes obvious when she talks
even though her tone is always
very friendly. Though she has
learned to wield arms and
armor, she prefers pretty
dresses (AC 11) and leaves
the swords in the hands of
men. Her political
background means that
she’s fluent in several
languages (Common,
Chultan, Elven, Dwarvish,
and Halfling).
Ideal: Dominance – Shandra
wants to rule over
everyone.
Bond: Shandra is dedicated
to ruling Camp Highmore and
the surrounding region,
which failed when she
couldn’t marry High Chief Highmore.
Flaw: It was Shandra and her husband Filip which
started the corruption in Camp Highmore, which is
now being threatened by an elven woman called Imis
Elvan.
Intrigue: Shandra’s and Filip’s flaws explains the
intrigues of these two characters.
Speaking with Shandra reveals her naivety. She seems
to know a lot less than expected. Let the players make
Intelligence (Investigation), Wisdom (Insight), and
Charisma (Persuasion) checks or simply roleplay
the following information.  When Filip failed to capture Imis Elvan he was
furious. As he consulted Shandra about their next
move he mentioned that maybe they should just say
that Imis stole secret military information, which
Shandra believed. She therefore suggested to hire
adventurers to capture Imis and recover the stolen
information. Filip thought this was a good idea, so
he sent her over to Johan so that he would hire
adventurers. When the players ask Shandra about
the quest, she doesn’t understand that she gave
anyone a quest, since it was Johan who gave a quest
at Filip’s suggestion.  Shandra never mentions or hints that she’s married
to Filip.  When pushed for information, Shandra explains
that she will ask the other chiefs in the camp and
try to get to the bottom of whatever the players are
asking. She suggests that they return again the next
day.
The party now has four choices.
1. Go speak with Chief Filip at the barracks to
investigate the scene of the crime, learn more about
Imis Elvan, and possibly pick up her trail. See Act 1
Scene 3: Investigation at the Barracks for more
information.
2. Wait a day for Chief Shandra to gather additional
information. The second meeting with her is
explained in Act 2 Scene 1: The Arrest.
3. Gathering information in any other way should
attract the attention of Tane Here and his rogues,
who secretly leads them to the thieves’ hideout. See
Act 3 Scene 1: Thieves’ Hideout for more
information.
4. Go to the gate to pick up Imis Elvan’s trail. See Act 4
Scene 1: The Gate for more information.
Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only. Elfhunt by Jussi R. Foltmar Svendsen 6
Scene 3: Investigation at the Barracks
If the players wish to see the scene of the crime and
investigate it or question Chief Filip, the man in
charge of the guards that chased Imis Elvan out of
town, then the players will have to go to the barracks.
The barracks is nothing more than a large dirt training
grounds with large skin tents set up to accommodate the
guards and soldiers of Camp Highmore. There are tents for
sleeping, eating, even for the toilet, armory, and the chief’s
personal office. You are led by two guards into the largest
tent to speak with Chief Filip. The inside of the tent is richly
furnished with chests, armors, weapons, and a large
wooden desk with Chief Filip sitting in a chair behind it.
Chief Filip
Filip is a strong man with long dirty black hair and
beard and a scar in his face. He’s very authoritarian
and intimidating, which anyone quickly notices when
speaking with him. He is the chief of the Tribe of the
Moonweavers, which is currently being led by his
brother while he handles the military in Camp
Highmore under orders by High Chief Highmore. He is
married to Chief Shandra, but the union is a secret to
most in the camp. Shandra takes care of the politics in
the camp while Filip takes care of the military. This is
mainly because Filip is a strong man while his wife is
an influential politician. Filip usually walks around in
his half-plate wielding his axe.
Ideal: Perfection – Filip wants
perfection in everything.
Bond: Filip is normally a
loyal man, but he believes
that High Chief
Highmore is poisoning
the people and that he
should have been chosen as
the High Chief.
Flaw: Filip has fits of rage,
especially when he encounters
disorder and chaos.
 Intrigue: Filip was the
ambitious man who wanted
to overthrow the
high chief
to start
with. He has spread the corruption throughout the
camp, but now an elf woman called Imis Elvan has
stolen proof of his plans to overthrow High Chief
Highmore. To ensure that she doesn’t cause any
problems, Filip will get back the proof that Imis stole
and then dispose of her.
Speaking with Filip and investigating the barracks
reveals little information. Let the players do
Intelligence (Investigation), Wisdom (Insight), Wisdom (Survival), and Charisma (Persuasion)
checks or simply roleplay the following information.  The secret military information is classified, so Filip
won’t talk more about it. The truth is that it’s
personal information and not military information,
but he never shares this with the players.  Investigating the barracks reveal little to no
information since no theft ever occurred here. Imis
Elvan stole her information from somewhere else,
but Filip keeps to his story that it was military
information from the barracks that was stolen.  The perpetrator is a wood elf called Imis Elvan.
She’s an illusionist who studies the humans in the
region, especially Camp Highmore. She has some
area of effect spells such as Cone of Cold and
Thunderwave, but her signature spell is Mirror
Image, which she likes to combine with Misty Step
and Magic Missile.  Filip and his guards caught Imis Elvan red handed
and chased her to the gate. They shot at her with
crossbows, and she killed a few guards with a Cone
of Cold and Thunderwave before she escaped into
the jungle. She was last seen just outside the gate.
Whatever the players decide to do after their meeting
with Chief Filip, they have angered him. He now fears
that the players are snooping too much. He therefore
quickly goes to Johan and tells him to frame the
players. He then gathers a number of guards and
meets the players at their next destination and arrests
them for working with Imis Elvan. See Act 2 Scene 1:
The Arrest for more information. 
Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.
Elfhunt by Jussi R. Foltmar Svendsen 7
Act 2: Conflict
The second act of the adventure only occurs if the
players decide to investigate the crime scene or speak
with Chief Filip before tracking down Imis Elvan or
getting the attention of the rogues. Chief Filip will
have Johan frame the players and then gather a
number of guards to arrest the players. At best the
players can escape and try to find Imis Elvan to get it
all sorted. Worst case scenario the players will get
caught, thrown into the dungeon, subjected to an
unfair trial, only to have the act finish off with the
rogues saving the party, leaving this act to seem like
the players are losing an unwinnable game.
 Note that act 2 can be skipped if the players catch
the attention of the rogues before they meet with
Chief Filip or if they go directly to the gate to pick up
Imis Elvan’s tracks.
 A note of caution. In my experience some players
dislike the feeling that they don’t stand a chance. If
you sense that your players are feeling frustrated or
defeated, then you can skip ahead to act 3 to give
them renewed hope. This should only be done as a
last resort to avoid having the game crash and the
group fall apart.
Scene 1: The Arrest
Once the players have met with Chief Filip, their next
actions don’t really matter. Let them do whatever
they want, but when they reach their next scene, a
group of guards should arrive, consisting of 2 knights
and 11 Highmore guards. This encounter should end
up being impossible for the players to succeed, so if it
ends in a fight, the guards simply knock the players
unconscious when they reach 0 hit points instead of
killing them.
You see a dozen guards come marching up towards you in a
stern and orderly fashion with their hide armors fastened
and their spears held with pride. One of them in heavier
armor cries out “You halt! You are under arrest for aiding
and abetting in the theft and trade of secret military
information. Drop your weapons and come with us or we will
have no choice but to use force.”
The party now has four choices.
1. Do as the guards say by dropping their weapons
and coming with them peacefully. The guards will
lead the players into the dungeon where they will
be searched and stripped of their weapons before
being pushed into a common cell. See Act 2 Scene 2:
The Prison for more information.
2. If the party decides to fight, they will most likely
fail. Instead of dying, they will be knocked
unconscious, searched and stripped of their
weapons, and wake up in a common cell in the
dungeon. See Act 2 Scene 2: The Prison for more
information.
3. If the party fights and miraculously succeed at
defeating the guards, then they will definitely be
outlaws and will have to sneak their way through
the camp unless they want another combat
encounter with more guards. See Act 3 Scene 4:
Stealth Escape for more information.
4. If the party tries to make a run for it, then a chase
begins. See Act 3 Scene 3: Flight for more
information.
Scene 2: The Prison
Whether the players surrender to the guards in the
previous scene, or fight and get knocked unconscious,
then they will end up in the prison in the dungeon
after being searched and stripped of their weapons.
They are all thrown into a common cell.
You have ended up in a cold and damp cell made of natural
rock with iron bars blocking your exit. A tipped bucket lies
in the corner of the cell, which is covered in straw. The
smell is horrible and the dripping echo coming from the rest
of the dungeon might eventually drive you insane.
The players might want to attempt a jailbreak. You
should allow them try. Here are three suggestions on
how to escape from the prison.
1. Only their weapons have been confiscated. Assume
that any rogues in the party with a thieves’ tool
kept it hidden from the guards, in which case they
may now attempt a Dexterity (Thieves’ Tools) DC
15 to try and pick the lock. If they fail their first
throw, you shouldn’t let them succeed on later
throws.
2. The players may try to break or bend the bars,
which requires a Strength check DC 20. This check
can be done as a group check, and then simply
roleplay that the player with the highest strength is
the one that bends the bars. If the party fails, don’t
let them succeed on later tries.
3. The players may try to draw the attention of a
nearby guard to steal the keys. Attracting the
attention of the guard and distracting him requires
a Charisma (Persuasion) check DC 15. Once he’s 
Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.
Elfhunt by Jussi R. Foltmar Svendsen 8
distracted, a player will have to succeed at a
Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check DC 20. If the
player fails by 5 or more, the guard notices the
attempt and the player may not try to steal the keys
from the guard again.
This scene may end in one of two ways.
1. The players succeed at escaping, in which case go to
Act 3 Scene 3: Flight.
2. The players are still in prison the next day, in which
case go to Act 2 Scene 3: The Trial.
Scene 3: The Trial
If the players fail to escape from prison, they will
eventually be handcuffed and escorted to the House
of Chiefs to stand trial.
A dozen guards handcuff and escort you to the House of
Chiefs. As you step into the main circular hall, you are
forced to stand in the middle while the chiefs stand up on
the dais along the edge of the room. At the far end sits High
Chief Highmore on his throne of wood and hide. Behind him
roars a fire that lights the entire hall. The two exists behind
you are guarded and a bell sounds the beginning of your
trial.
The party is accused of assisting and abetting in the
theft and trade of secret military information. The
charges and proofs gathered by Chief Filip, who is in
charge of the military in Camp Highmore, show that
the party has secretly been communicating with the
wood elf Imis Elvan and planned the theft on the
barracks, helping the elf get the information and flee
from the camp. All of the information that Chief Filip
is in possession of, comes from Johan Petry, who
gathered the proof directly from the players
somehow.
 Let the players defend themselves during the trial.
You can have them roll various checks to give the
illusion that the trial actually matters. The trial is a
farce and should go against the players, which
eventually will lead to their execution. All of this
won’t happen though, and even if the players defend
themselves well, High Chief Highmore will still
perceive them as criminals when the Thieves’ Guild
attack the House of Chiefs and “rescues” the party.
The party now has two choices.
1. If the players fight the rogues that come barging
into the House of Chiefs, they will most likely be
executed after the trial, unless their defense was so
good that they are found not guilty.
2. If the players accept the rogues rescue and escape,
then they are in for quite a chase.
In either case, see more in the next scene.
Scene 4: The Rescue
Either when the players are about to make a good
defense on their case that may tip the trial in their
favor, or when it seems direst and they are about to
be sentenced to death, 8 thugs barge into the House
of Chiefs through various entrances.
You suddenly hear glass shattering, skins being torn apart,
guards shouting, and suddenly smoke and fog starts
covering the circular hall. The sound of fighting erupts
around you as you notice an unknown number of masked
rogues fight their way past the guards. One of them comes
close to you and starts unlocking your handcuffs. “You have
been framed and this trial won’t end well. Come with us and
we will take you to safety.”
Many of the guards are preoccupied with the rogues,
but in a confrontation the party will have to face 1
knight and 6 Highmore guards. The best thing the
players can do now is actually to follow the rogue and
flee from the House of Chiefs through the smoke.
 The rogues will lead the players through the camp
and try to shake off the guards. Use the chase rules on
page 252 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide. The knight
and the 6 guards pursue the players and begin 90 feet
behind them. If you want, you can prepare the chase
beforehand, or you can run it spontaneously, giving
the illusion that this wasn’t really planned.
 When the party has defeated or escaped from the
guards, the rogues will want to blindfold the players
and carry them to the Thieves’ Hideout, which you
can read more about in Act 3 Scene 1: Thieves’
Hideout. Once at the hideout, the players will get all
their weapons back since the rogues picked them up
before rescuing the party from the House of Chiefs.
Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only. Elfhunt by Jussi R. Foltmar Svendsen 9
Act 3: Rising Action
The third act of the adventure occurs when the
players meet the leader of the thieves Tane Here. At
this point the plot thickens and the action slowly
rises. The players discover that the elf Imis Elvan is
the key to unraveling the corruption in the camp.
They will need to find her whether they want to turn
her in or clear their name, but first they need to leave
the camp and pick up her trail. Leaving the camp
might prove more difficult than they expect,
especially if they try to gather additional
information or equipment before they leave.
Scene 1: Thieves’ Hideout
Whether the players are seeking alternative
information in act 1 or incurred the wrath of Chief
Filip in act 2, the rogues will contact the players.
The party will be blindfolded and carried to the
Thieves’ Hideout, which obviously is in the sewers,
but the blindfolding and carrying will hide where in
the sewers they are currently hiding.
After an uncomfortable journey on the back of another man,
you are brought into a cold, damp, smelly cave with running
water. There’s only one place you know of near the camp,
and that’s the natural caverns beneath the ground used as a
natural sewer system. However, you don’t know where in
the sewers you have been brought. When your blindfolds
are taken off you find yourself facing a giggling man
surrounded by tents and small fires, clearly the thieves’
hideout.
Tane Here
Tane Here (human bandit captain) is an insane man
who grew up outside the bounds of order and law.
He’s very thin and his posture is strange. He has long
brown hair and a disregarded moustache. His insanity
has brought him through the ranks of the criminal
world in the Jungles of Chult, which awards him a lot
of power and respect. His clothes are ragged and
dirty, and his armor could use some mending. Even
though his posture indicates a deformity, he is agile
and fast. He’s incredibly lucky (see the Lucky feat),
but rarely uses it to his advantage. He prefers to use
short sentences and uses words in the wrong context.
He also changes topic very fast.
Ideal: Change – Tane does strange and crazy things,
mostly driven by a desire for chaos and change.
Bond: Tane has a strange obsession with
an empty open metal can, which Chief
Filip has stolen.
Flaw: Tane suffers from Heliophobia,
which is the fear of the sun. He is
therefore never seen outside during the
day.
Intrigue: Chief Filip stole Tane’s can,
and for that he wants vengeance. It
wouldn’t be too hard for Tane to steal the
can back, but he wants Filip to suffer,
and how better to suffer than have his
corruption exposed to the whole camp.
Still, Tane is very unreliable, so he
might turn on the players
and simply steal the can
back, desiring Chief Filip
to succeed in order to
bring change and chaos to the camp. Who knows?
The Quest
Tane is able to answer most of the party’s questions
and fill any holes in explanations. Don’t hold back and
don’t be shy. This is the point in the adventure where
the players get all the information and need to make a
decision.
 There are certain pieces of information Tane might
give the players without them asking for it. Here are
certain suggestions that you can give through
roleplay or through the use of Intelligence
(Investigation), Wisdom (Insight), and Charisma
(Persuasion) checks.  There never were any theft at the barracks, it’s all a
lie.  Imis Elvan stole documents from Chief Shandra’s
office, letters between her and her husband Chief
Filip.  Imis Elvan stole documents written by Chief Filip
with detailed explanations on the corruption in the
camp and his personal attempts at overthrowing
High Chief Highmore.  There’s absolutely no reason for Tane to help the
party, so he might betray them all of a sudden,
which he explains openly and with a bit of a manic
giggle
Whatever the party decides, they are in for a surprise.
When they reach their next destination, or half way
through the camp if they plan to leave it, they
experience the next scene.
Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.
Elfhunt by Jussi R. Foltmar Svendsen
10
Scene 2: Noble Assassination
When the party reaches their next destination after
meeting with Tane, or half way through camp in case
they try to leave camp, they experience the following
scene. You may also put in this scene when the party
meets with Chief Shandra the second time if you want
a better reason for arresting the players later on.
Using this course may lead the party to act 2, and thus
is a good way to railroad the adventure if you want to
add all the available scenes, but it’s not suggested.
You notice Chief Shandra in a red and white dress. She is
speaking with someone. Her eyes catch your presence and
she turns her head to look at your band of adventurers.
Terror and shock fills her soul as two bolts suddenly pierce
her chest. She slowly looks down clutching at two bleeding
wounds, and then she slumps to the ground dead. Panic
erupts.
A Wisdom (Perception) check DC 13 reveals one
thug and a DC 15 reveals both of the 2 thugs that just
assassinated Chief Shandra. They attempt to flee
across rooftops, trees, and cliffs. They resemble some
of Tane’s men, but the truth is that Filip discovered
that Johan is in love with Shandra and in a fit of rage
he believed that Shandra was in league with the
adventurers and Imis Elvan to get rid of Filip so that
she could be with Johan. To avoid any complications,
he hired tow assassins to kill her and later kill Johan,
which isn’t part of this adventure so feel free to do
whatever you want with Johan. To avoid the blame,
he has disguised them as some of Tane’s men, which
could easily be mistaken to be in league with the
party. The party may even be blamed to have shot
Shandra themselves. The point is that after giving the
party a chance to react and roleplay the scene, they
should be running from the law, or they’ll end up in
prison. See more in the next scene.
Scene 3: Flight
Whenever the party flees use this scene. This can
occur when they escape from the guards or prison in
act 2 or after Shandra has been assassinated in the
previous scene. This chase scene takes place in the
streets of the camp.
A dozen guards come rushing towards you yelling “Halt!
You’re under arrest! Stop them!” Clearly now would be a
good time to run unless you want to end up in jail.
14 Highmore guards chase the party. The guards
start 90 feet behind the players. Use the rules on page
252 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide or refer to the
same type of chase you ran in Act 2 Scene 4: The
Rescue.
Scene 4: Stealth Escape
The party may completely avoid fleeing through the
camp by using stealth. They may escape the guards
during the flight and have to rely on stealth to make it
the rest of the way. They may also skip this scene
completely.
The amount of guards searching for you in the camp is
dazzling. You didn’t even know there were that many
guards to begin with. You will have to rely on stealth to
make your way out of the camp and track down Imis Elvan,
the only person who can get you out of this mess, one way
or another.
The party may decide that capturing Imis Elvan and
turning her in to Johan or Filip will prove their
allegiance, which is correct. They may decide to kill
Imis Elvan, in which case they need proof of her death
before Filip will start trusting them. The party may
decide to track down Imis Elvan and use her proof
against Filip so that the party is no longer in danger
from the chief. In case the party can’t make up their
mind, or can’t figure out that they need to track down
and find the elf Imis Elvan, Tane Here and his thieves
can be used to help the players on to the right path,
and help them sneak through the camp and out into
the wilderness.
 The party can use magic, roleplay, and skills to
sneak through the camp. A Dexterity (Stealth) group
check DC 12 is necessary to move through the camp
undetected. A Strength (Athletics) group check DC
20 is necessary to climb the palisades to avoid
passing through the guarded gate. A Charisma
(Deception) group check DC 10 with disadvantage is
necessary to disguise themselves and get past the
guards at the gate. A last possibility may be to create
some sort of distraction near the gate so that they can
sneak out while the guards are occupied. You should
reward the players’ creativity and let them succeed in
escaping the camp. 
Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.
Elfhunt by Jussi R. Foltmar Svendsen
11
Act 4: Action
The fourth act of the adventure occurs when the
players leave the camp, most likely to track down the
elf Imis Elvan. This act covers most of the standard
dungeons and dragons action, including skill
challenges, exploration, social interactions, random
encounters, and combat encounters. The party will
travel through the Jungles of Chult, into the Feywild
and track Imis to a minotaur infested fey labyrinth.
This act contains two random encounter tables.
 Note that act 2 and 3 can be skipped, and that the
players may go directly to this act from act 1. This is
intentional to make the adventure shorter in case the
players are uninterested in politics and intrigue, or to
simply throw them into more combat oriented
encounters.
Scene 1: The Gate
When the party leaves Camp Highmore, they will
most likely try to track the elf Imis Elvan. The most
logical place to start is right outside the gate, but if the
party skips it, then skip ahead in the scene.
A well-travelled path leads away from the wooden gate
flanked by wooden beams that make up the camp’s
palisades. Nearly a hundred feet of jungle has been cleared
from the camp’s boundary. The path winds into the rocky
jungle covered in vines and large green trees of various
sorts. Danger looms beyond but your search for the elf
begins here.
The path right outside the camp beyond the gate has
heavy traffic and it’s impossible to find tracks here.
The party will therefore need to find other clues
before they can pick up Imis Elvan’s trail. With a
successful Wisdom (Perception) or Intelligence
(Investigation) group check DC 20, they can find an
elven brooch. Since there’s a very limited amount of
elves in the camp it should be obvious that it once
belonged to Imis Elvan. Furthermore, their search
should also reveal pieces of ripped clothing near the
edge of the jungle from when the guards shot
crossbow bolts at Imis. Combining the bolt, clothes,
and brooch, you can tell the players that they can
reconstruct her escape and that they may find her
tracks within the jungle.
 Once the party has discovered Imis’ trail they can
search for her tracks. A player proficient in Survival
may roll a Wisdom (Survival) check DC 20 to find
her tracks and continue to the next scene.
 If the party fails, you have two choices depending
on whether they skipped act 2 and 3 or not.
 If they skipped the previous two acts, then you can
tell the players that they could try to gather
information in the camp that may lead them to Imis’
trail. Filip could hint at where Imis was last seen or
Tane may have a tracker that goes with the party.
 If the players have played through act 2 and 3, or
you want to advance the story, then give the
impression that the players found Imis’ tracks, but
in reality they were the tracks of other elves. Hours
later the party should come upon a camp with 2
wood elf scouts, a man called Habrision and a
woman called Torcassa. These two elves are very
kind and helpful, and are willing to help the party
track Imis Elvan without asking any questions. This
should help the party continue to the next scene.
Scene 2: Jungle Animals
The Jungles of Chult are a dangerous place. The party
will travel for hours, maybe days through the jungle
surrounding Camp Highmore.
Your travels take you off the beaten path and into a wet
wilderness of large mossy trees with vines and roots. Your
journey follows creeks, rock ledges, cliffs and waterfalls.
The Jungles of Chult are a dangerous place, and it’s only a
matter of time before you encounter some of its inhabitants.
The following random encounter table has been
created specifically for this adventure. You can
change it to incorporate the more common creatures
of the Jungles of Chult, or reuse it for other
adventures that take place in jungle regions that
borders the Feywild. Suggestions and descriptions of
the various encounters are described after the table,
but feel free to modify the encounters as you see fit.
 Whenever the table tells you to divide a roll, then
always round up.
 Note that this table has been created to suit 4
characters of 5th level. You may need to modify it a
little in case you have more or less players.
Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.
Elfhunt by Jussi R. Foltmar Svendsen
12
Jungle Random Encounter Table
Roll 2d6 # Monster
2 1 Treant
3 2 Faerie Dragon
4 1d6+2 Harpies
5 1d4 Gnolls + 1 Gnoll Lord + (1d4)/2 Hyenas
6 1d8+7 Wolves
7 5 Apes
8 2 Black Bears
9 1d6+2 Hippogriffs
10 1d4 Ogres (Always at least 2)
11 1 Chimera
12 1 Guardian Naga
Treant
This is a non-combat encounter. A treant is a deadly
creature to encounter but also a benevolent one. The
treant is a protector of the jungle and thus it may stop
the players from chopping wood or starting a fire, or
protect them from some evil creature. The treant
should interfere before any harm is done and inform
the party that they shouldn’t hurt the jungle. If the
players persist, then they may end up in a deadly fight
against this guardian that would otherwise make sure
the players’ journey remains safe. The treant may
even have met Imis and could help the party track
her.
Faerie Dragons
This is a non-combat encounter. This dragon couple
has come from the Feywild and discovered an
interesting world. They are both the same age and of
different gender. They are over 25 years old and
when encountering the players, they are more
interested in playing tricks than fighting. Donating
treasures in the form of sweets, baked goods, and
baubles, the dragons may reveal themselves and even
help the party travel safely through the Jungles of
Chult. They may even have spoken with Imis and can
help the party track her.
Harpies
The Southwater tribe of harpies may discover that the
party travel through their territory and attempt to
lure them off cliffs or into pits of quicksand. These
harpies are cowards and will flee if the fight turns
against them. They are led by Matriarch Wrathwing.
Gnolls
This band of gnolls is not native to the Jungles of
Chult. They have travelled deep into the jungle in
search of some treasure and gotten lost. They have
now been lost for so long that even they are amazed
that they have survived. They will fight for food, but
the gnoll lord Llyr is no fool and will gladly retreat if
the fight goes against her.
Wolves
The Jungles of Chult is a dangerous place with wild
animals. This pack of wolves will stalk the players.
When the party is weakest they may attack, but if the
fight goes against them, the wolves will retreat. They
may try to attack again later, or they may simply leave
the party alone.
Apes
The Jungles of Chult is a dangerous place with wild
animals. This shrewdness of apes will attack the
players and continue fighting even if the fight goes
against them. They won’t fight till death, and when
they are low on hit points, they may individually flee
from the fight.
Black Bears
The Jungles of Chult is a dangerous place with wild
animals. This pair of bears will see the players as food
and will therefore attack. They will fight till they are
almost dead and then try to flee.
Hippogriffs
Hippogriffs roost on some of the higher rocks and in
the waterfalls of the Jungles of Chult. Some of them go
hunting, which are the ones the party may encounter.
IF the players are skillful, they could capture some of
the hippogriffs or find their breeding ground for later
use, but taming a hippogriff will take longer than just
this adventure.
Ogres
These ogres live in the caves of the rockier parts of
the jungle and come upon the players as they are out
looking for food. They are not too bright and will
therefore threaten the players to give them all of their
belongings. Whether the players do as they are asked
or not, the ogres will attack and try to eat the players. 
Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.
Elfhunt by Jussi R. Foltmar Svendsen
13
Chimera
In the rockier parts of the jungle, where hippogriffs
roost and ogres hide their lairs, the party may come
across a chimera. This dragon feeds off of nearby
hippogriffs, but the players’ presence may entice it to
attack for a variety of reasons. The chimera will fight
till death. If you want, you can let the players find the
chimera’s lair after the fight, awarding additional
treasure.
Guardian Naga
This is a non-combat encounter. Through the party’s
journey through the Jungles of Chult, they will come
upon mysterious ancient ruins of elven nature, which
is strange due to the low number of elves in the
region. If you want, you can change it to other ruins.
 The party won’t be allowed to explore or loot the
ruins as they will encounter a guardian naga that will
ward them off. The naga hasn’t seen Imis Elvan, but
can tell the players a little about the ruins they will
encounter in scene 4. Use this opportunity or this
encounter to assist the players in case they can’t
figure out how to continue the story beyond scene 4.
Scene 3: Elven Tracks
Whether the party finds Imis’ tracks at the gate of the
camp, or get help to find them, they will have to keep
tracking her through the jungle. If they ever lose her
tracks, use this scene to put them back on track, or
you can use this scene simply to spice up the journey.
You reach a creek blocking your path as it moves quickly
through the rocky underbrush of the jungle. You notice that
someone has set up camp on the opposite side of the creek
and looking around reveals that whoever set up the camp
must also have tipped a large log and used it as a bridge
over the creek.
An Intelligence (Investigation) group check DC 15
reveals that Imis was most likely the one who set up
the camp and tipped the log. Hints such as elven
tracks, bandages, etc should indicate that it was Imis,
or at least some lone wounded elf.
 A Wisdom (Survival) check DC 15 gives the
players the opportunity to find Imis’ tracks and
continue their journey. If the party fails and haven’t
met Habrision and Torcassa, then these two may
come upon the camp and assist the players.
Scene 4: Gatekeepers
After at least one day of travel, possibly more, the
party reach the end of Imis’ tracks in the jungle. They
lead to ancient mysterious elven ruins.
Beyond the large green vine trees, you come upon the
remains of some sort of elven stone structure. The soft soil
is covered in slippery rocks that are made wet by trickling
water that runs down a set of stairs moving up against the
side of a smooth cliff. Several of the steps are broken by
protruding roots and remains of mysterious small stone
structures resembling altars surround a large overgrown
arch. The stairs lead up to a plateau behind the arch where
another set of stairs lead back down into the arch. The path
simply stops here. You doubt you will be able to reach the
arch without following the stairs.
5 dryads guard this portal to the Feywild. They will
use entangle to ensure that none pass through the
arch. When they engage in combat they first cast
barkskin and shillelagh before using tree stride to gain
a positional advantage in combat. They will do
anything to ensure that no non-elf goes through the
portal.
 Once the dryads have been dealt with, the party may
want to try to use the portal to reach the Feywild
since Imis clearly fled there. Doing so requires going
through the arch from the correct side and doing so at
either sunrise or sunset. If they fail to use the portal
and investigate it, an Intelligence (Arcana),
Intelligence (History), or Intelligence
(Investigation) check DC 15 is required to discover
hints such as the elven text on the arch saying “At the
sun’s set position in the sky, the path between worlds
will be open.” This hint refers to the fact that the
Feywild is in a perpetual twilight state.
 If the party still fails and get stuck in this scene, you
can always lead them into other nearby elven ruins
guarded by a Guardian Naga that can assist the party
after the dryads have been defeated.
Scene 5: Feywild
The Feywild is in a state of perpetual twilight. The
players will enter the Feywild during twilight and
thus they may not notice that they have entered the
Feywild to begin with,
 The ruins seem unchanged but a Wisdom
(Perception) or an Intelligence (Investigation)
check DC 15 reveals certain small differences. Once in
the Feywild, the ruins seem to have been constructed 
Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.
Elfhunt by Jussi R. Foltmar Svendsen
14
specifically in this manner. They don’t seem to be
ruins anymore, but built to resemble ruins. This was
done to trick travelers.
 Once through the portal, any non-fey should roll a
Wisdom saving throw DC 10. Anyone who fails have
a very limited memory of their time in the Feywild,
which is up to you to roleplay. You can do this by
describing things differently, skip scenes, downtime,
rests, or travels.
 You should also roll a d20 and consult page 50 of
the Dungeon Master’s Guide to keep track of how
much time passes.
 The party can pick up Imis’ tracks again with a
successful Wisdom (Survival) check DC 15. If they
fail, then use the Feywild to your advantage and
simply tell the players that they don’t remember how
they reached the next scene. You may even skip a few
scenes and go directly to act 5 if you want, though this
should only be done if they haven’t already skipped
act 2 and 3.
Scene 6: Land of the Fey
The Feywild is also a dangerous place. The party may
travel for hours, maybe days through the land of the
fey.
The eternal twilight of this place combined with the heavy
burden on your memories is unsettling and eerie.
Sometimes you feel like you have skipped days. Plants and
bugs shed light especially when touched and though
everything seems serene and peaceful you feel like eyes are
always watching you in the darkness beyond the large fey
trees that grow larger for every mile you walk. The path
becomes the inside of hollow logs and you feel like you are
always near some forbidden lit fey castle. It is only a matter
of time before you encounter someone or something else in
this strange land.
The following random encounter table has been
created specifically for this adventure. You can
change it to incorporate the more common creatures
of the Feywild, or reuse it for other adventure.
Suggestions and descriptions of the various
encounters are described after the table, but feel free
to modify the encounters as you see fit.
 Whenever the table tells you to divide a roll, then
always round up.
 Note that this table has been created to suit 4
characters of 5th level. You may need to modify it a
little in case you have more or less players.
Jungle Random Encounter Table
Roll 2d6 # Monster
2 1 Night Hag
3 1d4 Ogres (Always at least 2)
4 1d4 Centaurs (Always at least 2)
5 1d8+7 Pixies
6 1d4+3 Dryads
7 2 Faerie Dragons
8 2d4+3 Satyrs
9 1d8+7 Sprites
10 1 Unicorn
11 (1d6)/2+5 Goblins + 1 Goblin Boss
12 1 Treant
Night Hag
This sole hag has only recently been corrupted by her
foulness and thus still hides in the Feywild. If
discovered, she will surely be exiled to Hades. When
she discovers the party, she sees an opportunity to
advance her own goal by using the party to spread
her corruption. She will do this with a mixture of
Nightmare Haunting and shapeshifting. This
encounter may drag out for a long time. It may even
be the beginning of the next adventure.
Ogres
These ogres wander the Feywild in a nomadic group.
When encountering the players, they will bully them
and fight until death, even if the players surrender.
Centaurs
This is most likely a non-combat encounter. The party
may encounter a small hunting band of centaurs
while travelling through the Feywild. Maybe they only
hear them, or see them as they come galloping by, or
you can introduce the centaurs to the players. If you
want a fight, you can always provoke the players, or
have the centaurs be defending something in the area
the party is travelling through.
Pixies
This is most likely a non-combat encounter. Pixies
abhor weapons, and this group of pixies are more a
curious nuisance than anything else. They are small
and invisible, and will steal and investigate the
players as they travel through the Feywild. If annoyed 
Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.
Elfhunt by Jussi R. Foltmar Svendsen
15
or threatened, the pixies will most likely flee, but they
may also use spells as confusion, entangle, fly,
polymorph, or sleep to enthrall the players, which
may end in death. The players may find themselves
dancing until they die, or fly into the sky and then
plummet to their death, or simply sleep for all
eternity, or be permanently transformed into some
weak inferior being. The lesson here is “don’t annoy
the fey.”
Dryads
This is most likely a non-combat encounter. Unlike
the dryads the party encountered at the gate, these
are not immediately hostile. These dryads will most
likely attempt to charm the party and send them
completely off course, most likely sending them to
some eladrin castle to be judged for their trespassing,
but that is another adventure. If attacked, the dryads
will defend the lands until death.
Faerie Dragons
This is most likely a non-combat encounter. This
dragon couple are both over 25 years old and of
different gender. They are more interested in playing
tricks than fighting, but they will defend themselves
and their home, but they won’t give their lives for it.
Donating treasures in the form of sweets, baked
goods, and baubles, the dragons may reveal
themselves but they aren’t much help here in the
Feywild as they are too distrusting of the party.
Satyrs
This is most likely a non-combat encounter. This
group of satyrs are driven by curiosity and will love to
join the party, hearing stories. The party will quickly
bore them, but they may learn where to find revels
for future quests. One of the satyrs carries satyr pipes.
If someone tries to steal or threaten the satyrs, they
will fight only to satiate their hedonistic nature by
fighting a group of great heroes.
Sprites
These sprites are more aggressive than the pixies.
They will use Heart Sight to judge the moral character
of the player. Anyone who fails are put to sleep with
their poisoned arrows. Anyone who succeeds will be
frightened off. This may end up splitting the party, or
forcing some players with pure of heart to actually
attack the sprites in order for them to save their
companions
Unicorn
This is most likely a non-combat encounter. Any open
flames of a nonmagical nature are extinguished as the
party enters the unicorn’s domain. Read more about
the unicorn’s regional effects on page 293 of the
Monster’s Manual. The unicorn will most likely not
reveal itself unless it deems the entire party to be
worth of its presence, or if the party are so aggressive
that the unicorn will have to intervene and slay the
evil party. If you want, the unicorn may even join the
party, serving as a mount, for the duration of their
stay in the Feywild, simply to ensure that the elf Imis
Elvan is not persecuted by corrupted humans.
Goblins
These malicious raiders pillage the Feywild and have
done so for as long as they have existed. When they
encounter the party, they see more prey and will try
to set up an ambush and attack them. They may be
discovered though, even before they get to set up
their ambush. It’s up to you how you want to run this
little warband of goblins.
Treant
This is a non-combat encounter. A treant is a deadly
creature to encounter but also a benevolent one. This
treant is a protector of the Feywild and thus it may
stop the players from chopping wood or starting a
fire, or protect them from some evil creature. The
treant should interfere before any harm is done and
inform the party that they shouldn’t hurt the Feywild.
If the players persist, then they may end up in a
deadly fight against this guardian that would
otherwise make sure the players’ journey remains
safe.
Scene 7: The Labyrinth
After travelling for a long time through the Feywild,
the party will eventually reach the labyrinth where
Imis is hiding. Unfortunately, she’s hired some
defense in case she was ever tracked or disturbed.
Your journey through the Feywild brings you out of the
forest where you suddenly stand before a wall of fog. The
fog is clearly magical and as you stand and look at it, it
disperses to reveal a hedge maze. The fog blocks your sight
to the sides so you have no idea how large this maze is, but
the entrance is right before you. This must be Imis’ domain. 
Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.
Elfhunt by Jussi R. Foltmar Svendsen
16
The journey through the maze is both easy and hard.
There are no maps because maps are not necessary in
this scene. The maze is set in the Feywild, which plays
tricks on the players’ memories, so they won’t be able
to map the maze or move through it in any logical
manner. Furthermore, 2 minotaurs inhabit the maze
and their magic ensures that once the party enters,
they will not leave again or reach Imis Elvan.
 Give the illusion that the players have a chance at
finding their way through the maze, either by using
logic and roleplay, skills, magic, or any other creative
solution they can think of.
 When the players start to get the hint that this maze
is magical in nature, or when they have wandered
through it long enough, then introduce one of the
minotaurs standing in front of them. They should find
their rear blocked as well by the other minotaur,
forcing a fight.
 Once the minotaurs have been defeated, the party
will find their way to the center of the maze where
they will encounter Imis Elvan as described in the
next and last act.
Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only. Elfhunt by Jussi R. Foltmar Svendsen
17
Act 5: Resolution
The fifth act concludes the adventure and includes
two boss fights, one for each possible ending. The act
begins when the party finally finds Imis Elvan. At this
point they can either side with Chief Filip and capture
or kill Imis Elvan, or they can side with the elf and
join forces. In both cases they will travel back through
the Feywild and the Jungles of Chult before reaching
Camp Highmore. Here they will either turn in Imis
Elvan or her body, or they will face Chief Filip in a
final confrontation. Finally, they will be rewarded
personally by High Chief Highmore, no matter what
their choice, so they get a level and treasure no
matter how the adventure ends.
Scene 1: Meeting the Elf
In the center of the labyrinth the party encounters
Imis Elvan, the elf who allegedly stole secret
military information from Camp Highmore and
then fled into the Jungles of Chult.
The center of the labyrinth is amazing and peaceful. It is a
large circular grove surrounded by immense redwood pine
trees with strange yellow lights embedded in them.
luminescent fireflies light up the grove that seems like a
serene elven living room. In the center of the mysterious
blue lights that course through the ground lies an elven
maiden on a pile of soft warm moss that seem to have
served as her bed during her stay here. As you enter the
grove she quickly stands up “Who are you?” Imis Elvan
Imis Elvan’s stats are described in appendix A:
Monsters. She’s a wood elf who has spent too much
time with humans, even giving birth to a half-elf many
decades ago. Her skills in magic are focused on the
school of illusion, which is combined with her skills in
deception. Her son’s father was a nomadic hunter, but
both often travelled to Camp Highmore. Imis is a wild
wood elf with silver eyes and long smooth black hair.
She has a dark green face tattoo. She’s very curious,
which is the reason she spent so much time with
humans, and why she discovered Chief Filip’s plot to
overthrow High Chief Highmore. She players a variety
of wind instruments and doesn’t usually say that
much. Conversations with Imis usually ends in lies
and with her gathering more information
than she imparts.
Ideal: Knowledge – Imis wants to know
as much as possible.
Bond: Imis has grown attached to
Camp Highmore for some unknown
reason.
Flaw: Imis has made a powerful enemy
of Chief Filip and the rest of the Tribe of
the Moonweavers.
Intrigue: Imis discovered that Chief Filip
was conspiring against High Chief
Highmore. After stealing documents
proving Chief Filip’s corruption
she fled from Camp
Highmore.
There are three possible outcomes to the party’s
meeting with Imis.  The party has come with the intention of arresting
Imis and bringing her back to Chief Filip. You
should roleplay her as if she’s guilty and simply
defending herself. She will not come willingly and
thus this will most likely end in a fight. Give the
players the chance to knock her unconscious when
they reduce her to 0 hit points so that they can
bring her back to Camp Highmore alive.  The party has come with the intention of arresting
Imis and bringing her back to Chief Filip. They talk
a lot with her, trying to reason with her. Eventually
you should make it clear that she’s innocent and
then Imis will explain everything to the players. The
party will then have to choose whether to actually
arrest her, or return to Camp Highmore to face
Chief Filip.  The party is seeking out Imis in the hopes of
gathering proof against Chief Filip so that the
accusations against them will be dropped. In this
case Imis proves very helpful and is more than
willing to follow the party back to Camp Highmore,
which will end in a confrontation with Chief Filip. 
Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.
Elfhunt by Jussi R. Foltmar Svendsen
18
Boss Fight
If the party ends up fighting Imis, she uses a specific
combination of spells and skills as described below.
Round 1: When fighting erupts, Imis shouts out
“You must be brave heroes if you dare challenge the
Mistress of Illusion! Show me what you’ve got” She then
spends her round attacking the closest player with
her sword (+6 atk, 1d6+3 dmg). She does this mainly
to assess the party and see what they are capable of
doing.
Round 2: Once she’s in melee with the closest
player, she will cast cone of cold on that player, hoping
to strike anyone else behind the player (8d8 cold
dmg, Constitution saving throw DC 15 for half
damge). As she casts her spell, she cries out as energy
erupts from her. Describe the spell as being waves of
pure magical energy instead of icicles.
Round 3: After her first spell, she will try to
position herself so that she stands in melee with the
largest amount of players without provoking any
attack of opportunity while doing so. Then she will
cast thunderwave using a 4th level spell slot (5d8
lightning dmg and knocks back any player 10 feet,
Constitution saving throw DC 15 for half damage and
avoid getting knocked back).
Consecutive Rounds: At this point Imis will simply
use her sword and attack the closest player (+6 atk,
1d6+3 dmg). If she defeats a player, she shouts “Ashes
to ashes!” or “Oh, careful not to bleed on this holy
ground.”
When she reaches 126 hp and again at 63 hp:
When she reaches 126 hit points or less, she will cast
misty step and reappear in four places scattered
throughout the grove as she just cast mirror image.
She will shout out “Come and try your luck!” On the
next round she will cast magic missile and the
subsequent rounds she will cast fire bolt until all of
her illusions have been destroyed. If her true form is
discovered, she will revert back to using her sword
and have her illusions join her. Then she will spread
out again and cast fire bolt, repeating this process
until all of her illusions have been destroyed.
 Once her illusions have been destroyed, she will get
close to as many players as possible without
provoking opportunity attacks and then cast
thunderwave with a 4th level spell slot, just like she
did in round 3.
 She repeats this tactic when she reaches 63 hit
points or less, except she will shout out “Are you
feeling dizzy?” and she will cast thunderwave for two
rounds using 3rd level spell slots instead. At this point
she should be running out of spells and hit points.
 Once defeated, Imis calls out “Ugh… It hurts…”
before either dying or falling unconscious.
Scene 2: Filip’s Fall
Whatever the players choose in the previous scene,
they will have to travel back to Camp Highmore. You
can make this a quick journey back, or you can run
various random encounters, check to see if they get
lost, set them on a side quest, whatever you feel like.
Once back in Camp Highmore, they will have to
confront Chief Filip no matter their previous choices.
If they haven’t met Chief Filip and simply go to Johan
to turn in Imis, then let Johan send them to the House
of Chiefs where they confront Chief Filip.
The House of Chiefs is empty, except for Chief Filip who
stands in the center. You hear guards at the entrance. Chief
Filip is standing in his red half-plate and wields his twohanded axe.
Here are three possible scenarios for this scene.
 The party has captured Imis Elvan and brings her to
the House of Chiefs where Chief Filip congratulates
them. If they’ve been framed while they were gone,
Filip simply says that he sorted everything out
while they were away, and the fact that they
brought Imis back is only additional proof of what
he already convinced High Chief Highmore of. He
then rewards the party and the adventure
concludes as described in the next scene.
 The party has killed Imis Elvan but brings back
proof of their deed. If they don’t, then Filip will not
believe them and the boss fight starts. Bringing
proof of Imis’ death will have the same effect as
bringing her back alive.
 The party confronts Chief Filip with Imis. They will
probably have been on their way to turn in their
evidence to High Chief Highmore or someone, but
end up at the House of Chiefs with Chief Filip’s
guards blocking the entrance. Imis will have her
hands full with the guards while the party will have
to deal with Chief Filip. The boss fight thus begins.
Boss Fight
If the party ends up fighting Chief Filip, then he uses a
specific combination of spells and skills as described
below.
Round 1: When fighting erupts, Chief Filip shouts
out “A chance to test my might!” He then attacks the
nearest player with multiattack. If possible, he’ll use
multiattack on two separate targets.
Round 2: Filip will use call for help and shout out
“Guards!” thus summoning 2 Highmore guards. 
Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.
Elfhunt by Jussi R. Foltmar Svendsen
19
Round 3: Filip will use leap attack to quickly move
into the center of the room without provoking
opportunity attacks, and possibly attacking a player.
Round 4: Filip will use whirlwind and move around
the room attacking as many as the players as possible.
Consecutive Rounds: Chief Filip will continue
fighting and calling for help whenever there aren’t
two guards assisting him. He will repeat his tactic
from round 3 and 4 when both features have
recharged.
 When he defeats a player he simply just laughs in
joy over his own might. When he is defeated, he will
call out “Defeated… by someone like you… the
shame…”.
Scene 3: Conclusion
Once the adventure concludes, they are awarded a
level and a reward from either High Chief Highmore
or Chief Filip. A celebration is held in the camp in
honor of the players, and eventually they are invited
to a private party at the House of Chiefs.
The festivities in your honor lasts all evening and many
continue dancing and playing music throughout the night.
You are personally invited to the House of Chiefs for an
after party where you are served expensive food and wine,
good company, and are given your reward for your deeds.
Reward
The party should be rewarded with a potion or scroll
each as you see fit. They should also be rewarded
with coins and gems. You may also reward them with
magical items instead of gems and coins. You may
also find the treasure below too much, in which case
you can simply halve it to balance it out more fairly.
 10 gems worth 100 gp each
 Chest of 7,000 sp
 Chest of 3,000 gp
The party should also gain renown with Camp
Highmore. If the camp are aware that the players are
affiliated with a specific faction, then they will put in a
good word for the players and thus they should get a
renown with their faction as well.
Epilogue
This adventure was first conceived in 2015 and finished
in 2016. It was playtested in 2016 by a group of players
who took turns being the dungeonmaster. This group of
“gamemasters” started out when my wife saw a notice
about someone looking for a group for D&D in a nearby
community. We had a newborn daughter at the time, so
we posted that we would be interested in playing under
certain conditions to ensure that our daughter always
came first. We assembled a group and one of the
conditions was that the games were always played at
our place so that our daughter could remain in a safe
environment. Another requirement was that she came
first, so whenever she wasn’t asleep, was hungry,
needed to be changed, etc, then one of us would focus
on that instead of playing D&D. The final criteria was
that we ended our sessions latest at 21:00 since she was
then put to sleep and we wanted to avoid the loud
noises from excited D&D players to wake her up. The
project evolved into each player taking turns being the
dungeonmaster and as I write this epilogue we still
haven’t gone through each player yet.
 This adventure is the adventure I wrote for when it
was my turn to be the dungeonmaster, and it was
greatly inspired by the adventure that my wife wrote. I
wanted to create an event based adventure that took
place in the same environment. The events were divided
up into NPCs that caused other events, and bound
together they created the basis for the story. I expanded
on the skeletal adventure I had created and then
divided it up into three parts, one for each main NPC,
the elf, the soldier, and the rogue. I further expanded on
this by applying the 5 act structure and then I wrote all
the details. Initially, the adventure was written as small
cards for each scene, but when the opportunity to
publish it on DMsguild arose, I changed the format to
what it has become today.
 I hope you appreciated this adventure and I will
definitely write and publish more in the future.
 —Jussi R. Foltmar Svendsen
 aka Gamemaster Jay 
Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.
Elfhunt by Jussi R. Foltmar Svendsen
20
Appendix A: Monster
Highmore Guard
Medium humanoid (human), lawful neutral
Armor Class 15 (hide, shield)
Hit Points 22 (4d8 + 4)
Speed 30 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA
13 (+1) 12 (+1) 12 (+1) 10 (+0) 11 (+0) 10 (+0)
Skills Perception +2
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Common, Chultan
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Pack Tactics. The guard has advantage on an attack roll
against a creature if at least one of the guard’s allies is
within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn’t
incapacitated.
Actions
Spear. Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack: +3 to hit,
reach 5 ft., or range 20/60 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d6 +
1) piercing damage.
Imis Elvan
Medium humanoid (wood elf), chaotic good
Armor Class 16 (mage armor, has 1x shield ready)
Hit Points 192 (35d8 + 35)
Speed 35 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA
10 (+0) 16 (+3) 12 (+1) 16 (+3) 13 (+1) 18 (+4)
Skills Arcana +6, Deception, +7, Insight +4, Perception
+4, Stealth +6
Damage Resistance nonmagical bludgeoning, piercing,
and slashing (stoneskin)
Senses Darkvision 60ft., passive Perception 14
Languages Elven, Common, Chultan, Draconic,
Dwarven, Halfling
Challenge 8 (3,900 XP)
Spellcasting. Imis is a 9th-level spellcaster. Her
spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 15, +7 to
hit with spell attacks). Imis has the following sorcerer
spells prepared:
Cantrips (at-will): blade ward, fire bolt, minor illusion,
prestidigitation, true strike
1
st level (4): mage armor, magic missile, shield,
thunderwave
2
nd level (3): mirror image, misty step
3
rd level (3): hypnotic pattern, major image
4
th level (3): stoneskin
5
th level (1): cone of cold
Actions
Shortsword. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5
ft., one target. Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage.
Chief Filip Moonweaver
Medium humanoid (human), lawful evil
Armor Class 16 (half plate)
Hit Points 157 (35d8)
Speed 30 ft.
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA
16 (+3) 12 (+1) 11 (+0) 12 (+1) 14 (+2) 11 (+0)
Skills Athletics +6, Deception +3, Insight +5
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages Common, Chultan, Dwarven
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Call for Help. As a bonus action, Filip can call for help,
which summons 2 Highmore guards. There can be no
more than 2 Highmore guards assisting Filip at any
given time.
Actions
Multiattack. Filip makes two melee attacks.
Leap Attack (Recharge 5-6). Filip uses his action to
make an athletics check. The roll indicates the distance
that Filip can jump (thus move) without provoking
opportunity attack. When he lands, he makes a melee
attack to a target within 5 feet. Filip must be on higher
ground than his target to use this feature. Filip may use
this feature without having a target.
Whirlwind (Recharge 5-6). Filip uses his action to make
a melee attack against any number of creatures within
5 feet of him, with a separate attack roll for each
target, as he moves around the room. Moving does not
provoke opportunity attacks. Only one attack per
target is allowed.
Greataxe. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 5 ft.,
one target. Hit: 9 (1d12 + 3) slashing damage. 